[STARDRIVE CAMPAIGN]{.c1}

[The Stardrive campaign is a classic "space opera" setting. The Solar
year is 2775 and the Orion Arm of the Milky Way galaxy has been
thoroughly explored and colonized, though new frontiers on all reaches
of space continue to provide opportunities for the adventurous. Life in
the galaxy is plentiful, and Humanity has encountered five other
intelligent and sentient species. The galactic community as a whole is
referred to as the "Ekumen," but political unity is hard to come by.
Numerous states and factions vie for dominance in the reaches of space.
]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Gravitics: ]{.c6 .c7}[Gravitics (or gravity technology) is a key
    element of life in 2775. Spaceships and stations are able to have
    artificial gravity for the benefit of their inhabitants, and
    sub-light propulsion is done through gravitic technology by tricking
    ships to "fall" forward through space.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Fusion:]{.c6 .c7}[ Nuclear fusion has supplied the Ekumen with a
    virtually limitless supply of energy, and safe fusion reactors power
    everything from cities to ships. That said, accidents can happen,
    and spent nuclear fuel is a now-common hazard.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Stardrive: ]{.c6 .c7}[The key piece of technology that defines this
    campaign is the stardrive, an engine that permits faster-than-light
    travel. The stardrive combines both gravitics and fusion technology,
    opening a rift in the fabric of space that connects two distant
    points. The bigger the stardrive (which also requires more energy to
    operate), the farther distance traveled, but only massive ships and
    space stations can power and carry a stardrive of large size. The
    smallest ships equipped with stardrives (luxury yachts and small
    freighters) generally have a distance range of up to 6 light years,
    while the biggest ships (military dreadnoughts and city-ships) can
    travel up to 36 light years in a single "jump." Smaller spacecraft
    such as fighters and other personal ships are not equipped with
    stardrives; those ships must hitch a ride in a larger vessel in
    order to cross the galaxy. Ships that travel using a stardrive leave
    regular space in a colorful flash and enter what is called
    "drivespace." While in drivespace, a ship is essentially stationary.
    Looking out a viewing port or window reveals a random kaleidoscope
    of colors, the meanings of which vary depending on the religion or
    philosophy of the traveler. Drivespace is also a dangerous place to
    be, however; ships must ensure that their hulls and airlocks are
    sealed prior to engaging the stardrive to prevent the stuff of
    drivespace from entering. Ships that have opened airlocks while in
    drivespace are never heard from again. A journey through drivespace
    always takes exactly 216 Solar hours (9 Solar days) regardless of
    distance traveled. Therefore, ships making jumps need to be
    well-prepared with food, water, and berthing for passengers. Upon
    emerging from drivespace, a ship's stardrive must go through a
    period of "cooling down" before making another jump. For every
    lightyear traveled, the stardrive must cool down for 2 Solar hours.
    Stardrives can only operate by bending the fabric of space;
    attempting to activate a stardrive in an atmosphere will result in a
    nuclear explosion, the size of which is determined by the size of
    the stardrive..]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Ansible: ]{.c6 .c7}[The ansible is a technology that permits
    communication between star systems. These types of communication
    include radio and electrical signals, but they do not have mass, so
    they do not require a stardrive to be sent. The ansible uses
    gravitics to "bundle" these radio and electronic messages and send
    them at faster-than-light speed. Ansibles are large devices, but are
    found in most every structure and ship. They are generally too large
    to be carried by an individual. Messages sent by ansible travel at a
    speed of 1 lightyear every three Solar hours. Delayed messages and
    responses are essential facts of life in the far reaches of the
    galaxy. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Star Systems: ]{.c6 .c7}[Due to the incredible distances between
    them, it requires a lot of time to communicate and travel from one
    star system to another. As such, each star system is
    quasi-independent. ]{.c6}

[]{.c1}

[ENDARKENMENT CAMPAIGN]{.c1}

[2212 CE. Earth. The Endarkenment. The specifics of the world will be
(for the most part) collaboratively built between the players and the
GM, but there are some facets of the world that are unchangeable:]{.c2
.c0}

-   [Climate Change: ]{.c6 .c7}[The absolute worst-case scenarios of
    climate change have come true, and then some. Global temperatures
    have risen and weather patterns have altered. All glaciers around
    the world have melted, raising seas to significant and devastating
    levels (65 meters above present sea levels). During the winter
    seasons in each hemisphere ocean ice appears, sometimes, but it
    quickly disappears upon summer temperatures. Weather patterns have
    changed around the world to affect agriculture and human life. The
    human cost of climate change has been unprecedented; wars, famine,
    species extinction, refugee crises, diseases, droughts, and more are
    commonplace. Lesser developed countries are more at risk of these
    consequences, but even first-world nations are dealing with
    climate-related issues. Needless to say the effects of climate
    change in 2212 are felt by everyone.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Psionics:]{.c6 .c7}[ Psionic ability has manifested itself upon
    humanity. Some humans are innately born with abilities only heard of
    in myth and legend; others can later develop this ability with
    intense focus and training, under the tutelage of another psionic.
    Different nations, cultures, and religions view psionic ability
    differently, and have differing laws, policies, regulations, and
    attitudes towards psionics. In the general population psionics are
    rare, occurring in roughly one out of 200 births at random.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Cyberware: ]{.c6 .c7}[Technology has progressed to the point where
    human and machine can be effectively joined to create truly
    cybernetic persons. Nanotechnology has permitted circuitry to
    interweave with the nervous system, allowing for conscious control
    of computerized implants. Choosing to become "cybered" is an
    expensive and laborious process, generally available to only
    powerful governments, corporations, or to the very affluent (or the
    criminal).]{.c6}
