Character Creation
==================

[Since Teleios tries to emphasize story, players are encouraged to think
of "who" their character is first and foremost, rather than simply a
collection of stats (which are admittedly important!). A good way to
begin is to think of characters from popular books, movies, or other
media that appeal to players, and use that as a starting point. Another
option would be to peruse the Character Traits, Ideals, and Bonds
section (see below) for some inspiration. A final word about character
creation would be to work closely with your GM (and maybe other players
as well), since they will undoubtedly have ideas about how your
character figures into their campaign. For example, perhaps not all of
the species are available for players to play. Alternatively, maybe the
history of the campaign setting is such that it could directly tie into
a character's backstory.]{.c2 .c0}

Species
-------

[The Teleios roleplaying game system has options for all types of
characters, centered around six different species. The decision to
include or exclude certain species from a particular game or campaign
should be determined by the GM and the players, and different species
can fit into various campaigns in different roles. Below is a chart
which details the minimum and maximum attribute scores for each species.
Additionally, brief descriptions are included of the history,
physiology, and sociology of each species.]{.c2 .c0}

  ----------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------
  []{.c1}           [FORT]{.c1}                [AGI]{.c1}                 [INT]{.c1}             [PERS]{.c1}                [CYB]{.c1}                 [PSI]{.c1}
  [Android]{.c1}    [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}      [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [0 -- 5]{.c2 .c0}
  [Fraal]{.c1}      [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}      [1]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [0 -- 5]{.c6}              [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}
  [Human]{.c1}      [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}      [2]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}
  [Sesheyan]{.c1}   [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [2]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}   [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}
  [Tesa]{.c6 .c7}   [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [2 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}      [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}
  [Weren]{.c1}      [2]{.c6}[ -- 6]{.c2 .c0}   [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}       [1 -- ]{.c0}[6]{.c6}   [1 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}          [0 -- 6]{.c2 .c0}
  ----------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- ---------------------- -------------------------- -------------------------- -------------------

### Android

[Androids are a species of humanoid whose synthesis of nanotechnology
and biological tissue is so complete as to be inseparable and virtually
indistinguishable from each other. Native to the planet Aleer, Android
history tells of a time when their species had no advanced technology,
and they called themselves simply the "Aleer." Since those now-forgotten
days, however, Aleer scientists, geneticists, and technicians were able
to advance nanotechnology to the point where the entire species now has
synthetic elements blended into their tissues. (Note that the term
"Android" was given to this species by Humans and is now a widely
accepted parlance, but that among their own kind the Aleer prefer the
term "Aleer.") From a distance it can be difficult to tell the
difference between Androids and Humans; Aleer are roughly the same
height and weight as Humans, and biological sexual differences between
males and females follow Human patterns as well. At closer range, the
differences between the species are evident. Android "skin" can be of
any color (and some of the more flamboyant Androids opt in for
multi-colored skin as well) and interlaced with nanocircuitry and other
cyber enhancements. They are completely hairless on their bodies, and
what passes for "hair" on the tops of their heads is actually a dense
network of cables, fibers, and other synthetic devices. Their eyes, when
not enhanced with cyber gear, consist of small pupils with gray or
silver irises. Most androids do not wear external clothing among their
own kind, choosing instead to augment their outward appearances with
glowing tattoos, armored plates, or other appendages. However, for
modesty in the company of non-Aleer, most Androids will wear clothing.
Androids have the following characteristics where the game is
concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Androids begin play with a free NanoC]{.c6}[omputer]{.c0}[ (see
    CyberWare for more information). Note that Android characters must
    still spend batteries when activating this piece of CyberWare, and
    it otherwise functions as normal. This CyberWare is considered
    "free" in that an Android character with a FORT of 1 could still
    purchase an additional piece of CyberWare as normal above and beyond
    this starting piece.]{.c6}
-   [Androids can acquire up to 7 pieces of CyberWare instead of 6.
    ]{.c6}
-   [Androids begin play with one free rank in Computers. If a player
    wishes their Android character to begin play with further ranks,
    they may purchase them as normal. An Android character cannot begin
    play with a rank higher than 4 in Computers.]{.c6}

### Fraal

[The Fraal are an ancient spacefaring species whose history is long and
convoluted. According to their history, a great colony ship was
dispatched from their home planet generations ago. In the course of
their centuries-long interstellar journey, technical complications
followed by civil unrest resulted in the loss of their own history. The
location of their home planet, as well as their purpose in setting out
to begin with, were all lost. It was in such a circumstance that the
first Fraal made contact with the galactic community, and the
now-dispossessed Fraal integrated into the Ekumen. Fraal are taller than
Humans, with the shortest Fraal standing at nearly 2 meters tall.
However, the Fraal are not a muscular species, being seen as "wispy" and
"frail" by non-Fraal. Fraal have silky-smooth black hair on their heads,
which is commonly braided into intricate patterns denoting status and
rank. They have no other body hair whatsoever, and their skin is pale
and smooth. Fraal eyes are large, oval, and nearly jet-black. They tend
to be slow and deliberate in their movements, but that belies a steady
determination and a quick response when necessary. All Fraal are
technically intersex due to the fact that individuals possess both male
and female sexual organs. As such, Fraal have no terms in their language
for "male" or "female," let alone gendered pronouns such as "he" or
"she." The reproductive cycle of Fraal is mysterious to non-Fraal,
giving rise to rumors that young Fraal are seeded in laboratories and
then incubated in embryonic tanks. Above all, the Fraal are
distinguished by their psionic ability. Even the least-talented Fraal
has some telepathic ability, and the greatest are sought as teachers of
psionic skills to others. Fraal have the following characteristics where
the game is concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Fraal begin play with one free rank in the psionic power Telepathy.
    Furthermore, Fraal Telepathy is superior in that Fraal do not need
    to see their intended target(s), though they are still limited by
    the 120 meter range. Finally, Fraal ]{.c6}[do not]{.c6 .c7}[ expend
    psychovolts when using Telepathy in this way (though Fraal
    characters who obtain Expertise Perks in Telepathy may be required
    to spend PV when using those powers). Telepathy is considered "free"
    in that a ]{.c6}[Fraal]{.c6}[ character with a PSI of 0 could still
    use Telepathy even though they do not possess any other psionic
    powers.  Fraal character can purchase an additional psionic power as
    normal above and beyond this starting power. All other rules about
    Telepathy apply as normal.]{.c6}
-   [Fraal can acquire up to 7 psionic powers instead of 6.]{.c6}
-   [Fraal begin play with one free rank in Occult. If a player wishes
    their Fraal character to begin play with further ranks, they may
    purchase them as normal. A Fraal character cannot begin play with a
    rank higher than 4 in Occult.]{.c6}

### Human

[The history and physiology of Humanity on Earth is well-documented
elsewhere and does not bear repeating here. Suffice to say that the
Human drive to explore, dominate, and spread continues as the species
expands into space. The Human spirit of ingenuity and diversity is
appreciated by the Ekumen, and Humans are by far the most numerous of
the species found in space. Humans have the following characteristics
where the game is concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Humans are very versatile, and have 6 extra XP to spend when
    starting a new character. These 6 extra XP are in addition to the
    starting XP that all characters calculate (see Character Creation
    for more information).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [When Human characters spend Luck points to reroll dice, if they
    still do not like the result, they can choose to keep the luck point
    and take the worse outcome of the two rolls, even if the results are
    the same.]{.c6}
-   [Humans begin play with one free rank in Charm. If a player wishes
    their Human character to begin play with further ranks, they may
    purchase them as normal. A Human character cannot begin play with a
    rank higher than 4 in Charm.]{.c2 .c0}

### Sesheyan

[The Sesheyan are by far the most "alien" of the species so far
encountered by Humans or the Ekumen. Native to a dense and dark jungle
planet, Sheya, the Sesheyan are most at home when hiding and hunting in
the dark. ]{.c6}[Sesheyans]{.c6}[ stand slightly smaller than humans,
averaging around 1.5 meters in height. They are a completely hairless
species, and their skin resembles shark skin in tone and texture more
than any other (gray and sandpaper-like). ]{.c6}[Sesheyans]{.c6}[ are
masters in dark environments, having six small, round, black eyes
situated on an oblong "face," much like a spider. Their bodies are lithe
and muscular, and non-Sesheyan are at a loss to determine differences
between males and females, though there are distinct sexual differences
to the trained eye. The most pronounced feature of Sesheyans, however,
is their set of bat-like wings, which have a 2-meter wingspan. Using
these wings, ]{.c6}[Sesheyans]{.c6}[ are able to soundlessly glide and
fly at moderate speeds. Sesheyans have the following characteristics
where the game is concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Sesheyan characters have an additional movement type: flying.
    Sesheyans can fly and glide at the same rate as they can walk and
    swim (FORT+AGI meters/phase) in normal atmospheric conditions. If a
    Sesheyan character tries to perform a difficult maneuver while in
    flight, an Acrobatics check may be necessary.]{.c6}
-   [Sesheyans]{.c6}[ have extraordinary photoreceptors, and can see in
    absolute darkness and require no special technology or sensors to do
    so. Note that this special vision is independent of thermal,
    infrared, or other types of vision that can be detected by
    technology.]{.c6}
-   [Sesheyans]{.c6}[ begin play with one free rank in Stealth. If a
    player wishes their ]{.c6}[Sesheyan]{.c6}[ character to begin play
    with further ranks, they may purchase them as normal. A Sesheyan
    character cannot begin play with a rank higher than 4 in
    Stealth.]{.c6}

### Tesa

[The Tesa are a quick, intelligent, curious, and welcomed species in the
Ekumen. Tesa are a reptilian species slightly smaller than Humans
(averaging 1.5 meters tall, though females are slightly larger). To
Humans, Tesa bring to mind various types of geckos, chameleons, and
lizards in their physiology and coloring (though Tesa females are
generally brighter and more vibrant than males). The Tesa originated in
an area of the galaxy with five nearby stars (known as the Tesa
Cluster). In the course of the development of Tesa civilization,
cryogenic technology was perfected to the point where the Tesa had
colonized all five of these star systems using conventional starship
engines (no stardrives) before encountering galactic civilization at
large. Tesa are nothing if not curious and intelligent, especially where
technology is concerned. Tesa have the following characteristics where
the game is concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Tesa characters have reptilian scales which function as natural
    Armor (see Gear descriptions for more details). However, Tesa
    characters do not suffer DA on Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, and
    Thievery checks since the benefit is natural.]{.c6}
-   [Tesa are quick to act, and so roll AD on all INIT checks.]{.c6}
-   [Tesa begin play with one free rank in Technology. If a player
    wishes their Tesa character to begin play with further ranks, they
    may purchase them as normal. A Tesa character cannot begin play with
    a rank higher than 4 in Technology.]{.c6}

### Weren

[Werens are a proud, noble, and warlike species. Native to the planet
Kurg, the history of the Weren species is filled with courageous
battles, betrayals, conquests, and defeats. In Weren culture, the
highest positions one can ascribe to (whether male or female) are to be
warrior or shaman. Even the shortest Werens stand over 2 meters tall,
and they can top out around 3 meters, with females only slightly shorter
than males. Furthermore, Werens are built for combat, with strong,
sturdy muscular bodies covered in thick fur. Weren fur varies in hue as
does Human skin color, and Weren eyes also resemble Human eyes in shape
and color. Most Werens do not wear clothing, letting their thick fur
bear witness to their prowess; sexual organs are concealed beneath their
thick fur regardless. Werens have the following characteristics where
the game is concerned:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Werens have sharp claws on the ends of their hands which function
    as a natural Melee Weapon (see Gear descriptions for more details).
    And, because of the great size of Werens, they are able to attack a
    target within 2 meters with their claws, rather than 1.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [A Weren's fur has a natural shimmer and shine which gives them AD
    on any physical defense roll versus a ranged attack.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Werens begin play with one free rank in Melee. If a player wishes
    their Weren character to begin play with further ranks, they may
    purchase them as normal. A Weren character cannot begin play with a
    rank higher than 4 in Melee.]{.c2 .c0}

Attribute Selection
-------------------

[Aft]{.c0}[er having an idea of who their character is, a]{.c6}[ player
]{.c0}[then]{.c6}[ choos]{.c0}[es]{.c6}[ a species, and ]{.c0}[also
chooses]{.c6}[ one of the standard attribute arrays below, assigning the
scores as they see fit]{.c0}[. Players should keep in mind the minimum
scores for each species, as they vary (see "Species" below).]{.c6}

-   [Basic Attributes: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[These characters have only the
    basic attributes (FORT, AGI, INT, and PERS) and do not begin with
    any ranks in PSI or CYB (although ranks can be added later as the
    character gains XP). The players may select one of]{.c0}[ the
    following arrays, and can distribute the points between the basic
    attributes as they see fit. ]{.c6}[NOTE: ]{.c6 .c7}[Android and
    Fraal characters cannot use these standard arrays as they
    automatically begin with an optional attribute.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [3, 3, 3, 3]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 3, 2, 2]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 3, 3, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 4, 1, 1]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [One Optional: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[These characters begin play with the
    basic attributes as well as one of the optional attributes (either
    PSI or CYB, but not both). As before, the player would select one of
    the following arrays and assign the points as desired.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [3, 3, 2, 2, 2]{.c2 .c0}
-   [3, 3, 3, 2, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 3, 2, 1, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 2, 2, 2, 1]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Two Optional: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[These characters begin play with the
    basic attributes as well as both optional attributes (PSI and CYB).
    Rules for assigning attributes remain the same.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [2, 2, 2, 2, 2, 2]{.c2 .c0}
-   [3, 2, 2, 2, 2, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [3, 3, 2, 2, 1, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [3, 3, 3, 1, 1, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 2, 2, 1, 1, 1]{.c2 .c0}
-   [4, 3, 1, 1, 1, 1 - (]{.c0}[N]{.c6}[ote tha]{.c0}[t by using this
    array it is impossible for the highest values (4 and 3) to be both
    PSI and CYB, since the sum of those numbers would be 7.)]{.c6}

Beginning XP
------------

[After all attribute points have been allocated, calculate beginning XP.
The formula for doing so i]{.c0}[s]{.c6}[ ]{.c0}[24+(INTx3)]{.c6 .c7
.c13}[. Note tha]{.c0}[t Human characters have an additional 6 XP.
]{.c6}[Players then use beginning XP to acquire ranks in skills, psionic
powers, or to acquire perks and ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[. No skill or
psionic power (just as with ]{.c0}[attributes]{.c6}[) can begin above
rank 4. ]{.c0}[Beginning XP cannot be used to improve attributes beyond
the chosen standard arrays]{.c6 .c7}[, though as a campaign progresses
players can absolutely spend XP on improving their
attributes]{.c6}[.]{.c6 .c7}[ A starting character is permitted to save
up to ]{.c0}[2]{.c6}[ XP for fu]{.c0}[rther training, but is required to
spend the remainder. ]{.c6}

Advancement
-----------

[As characters acquire more XP, it will be used to gain new ranks in
skills, psionic powers, ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[, perks, or attributes.
XP earned during the course of adventures or a campaign may be stored or
spent as the player sees fit. It is acceptable for characters to spend
gained XP ]{.c0}[during a game session by taking a rest]{.c6}[, but
remember that impuls]{.c0}[ive purchases are costly to retrain (see
"Retraining" below)]{.c6}[. The costs to improve skills, psionic powers,
and attributes are below:]{.c0}


  -------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------------- -------------------
  [Cost to Improve (in XP)]{.c1}   [Skills]{.c1}     [Psionic Powers]{.c1}   [Attributes]{.c1}
  [to Ranks 1-3]{.c1}              [1 XP]{.c2 .c0}   [2 XP]{.c2 .c0}         [3 XP]{.c2 .c0}
  [to Ranks 4-5]{.c1}              [2 XP]{.c2 .c0}   [3 XP]{.c2 .c0}         [4 XP]{.c2 .c0}
  [to Rank 6]{.c1}                 [3 XP]{.c2 .c0}   [4 XP]{.c2 .c0}         [5 XP]{.c2 .c0}
  -------------------------------- ----------------- ----------------------- -------------------


[All CyberWare costs 2 XP to acquire (see "Cyberware" below), and since
it does not gain ranks like attributes, skills, and powers, it does not
follow the traditional advancement chart listed above.]{.c2 .c0}

Awarding XP
-----------

[As a GM it can sometimes be difficult to decide when and how much XP to
award players. And while every GM is different, here are some suggested
guidelines:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Good Role-Playing: ]{.c6 .c7}[It is advised that the GM award
    players with extra XP each per session for good role-playing. It is
    important to note that this should not be punitive in any way on
    players, but instead should reward good storytelling and
    developments that tie in to character ideals, traits, and bonds. 1
    XP (or 2 for exceptional role-playing) is a good rule of thumb.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Awesome Moment: ]{.c6 .c7}[Every player and GM has been in a game
    when something truly awesome happens. Maybe a character makes a
    one-in-a-million shot, or pilots their ship with verve and skill.
    Perhaps the characters collectively place themselves in such a
    funny, terrifying, or unique situation that it creates awesome
    memories. GMs are encouraged to award 1 extra XP for such moments to
    any and all players involved. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Milestones: ]{.c6 .c7}[When characters attain a milestone by
    advancing the plot of the story in a significant way, XP should be
    awarded commensurately, between 1-3 XP per player.]{.c2 .c0}

Retraining
----------

[Sometimes characters realize that choices they made with regards to
skills, psionic powers, ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[, perks, and/or
attributes were poor choices, and they wish to "undo" those choices.
Such a circumstance calls for retraining. Retraining is always possible
at any time (the players should be able to modify and optimize their
characters to suit their style of play), but retraining is not without
cost. In order to retrain 1 rank in anything (skills, psionic powers,
]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[, perks, or attributes) the character must spend
1 XP, which is lost in the course of retraining; however, that character
then gains back the XP spent on the ]{.c0}[lost rank, CyberWare, or
perk]{.c6}[. The regained XP can then be spent or saved as normal. For
example, if a character has rank 3 in the psionic power Shield and
wishes to retrain it, they would first spend 1 XP to drop their rank in
Shield to 2. They would then have 2 XP (the cost of]{.c0}[ ]{.c6}[Shield
from ]{.c0}[rank 2 to 3]{.c6}[) to spend or save as normal. ]{.c0}[Bear
in mind that if a player retrains a skill, psionic power, or attribute
which would result in the loss of an expertise perk, those perks
associated with that retrained rank are also lost (but the character
would gain back the extra XP as well). ]{.c6}

Character Ideals, Traits, & Bonds
---------------------------------

[The Teleios system is primarily a storytelling system, and players and
GMs should keep in mind that good storytelling and good roleplaying are
what make any tabletop game enjoyable. The following section is designed
to help players and GMs "flesh out" their characters and NPCs. Ideals,
traits, and bonds]{.c6}[ are roleplaying items that try to make an
actual "character" out of the character, rather than just a bunch of
numbers.]{.c2 .c0}

### Ideals

[A character should begin play with at least one but no more than two
ideals. Ideals can be thought of as "goals;" what are the character's
overriding goals? What motivates the character? What drives them to do
what they do? A character's goals may change over the course of a
campaign (and in such a case, the player should work with the GM to
discuss the character's new ideals), but it establishes an overview of
what the character wants. The sample ideal list below is by no means
exhaustive, but it can be a starting point for players to choose their
character's ideals.]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Evangelization: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is driven to spread a
    message or an idea to others, preferably as many others as possible.
    Perhaps the character is a religious zealot, or a political
    revolutionary. In any case, they seek converts to their
    worldview.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Fun: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character's overriding goal is to experience
    pleasure in all of its varied forms. Everything this character does
    is designed to perpetuate their luxurious lifestyle, and to live
    their life to the fullest. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Love: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character puts the person(s) they love before
    everything, and the well-being of those loved ones comes before all
    else, even the character's own well-being. This ideal suits
    characters who have romance, family (parents, siblings, or
    children), or who wish to reconcile with a loved one as a part of
    their character's background.]{.c6}
-   [More: ]{.c6 .c7}[A character with this ideal wants to acquire as
    much wealth and as many material possessions as they can. They want
    it all, and they are reluctant to share with the rest of the world.
    Perhaps this character is motivated to possess a certain object, or
    to collect only certain objects. Most importantly, why is the
    character driven by material wealth?]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Knowledge: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is driven by the quest to
    discover. Perhaps the character is concerned with cosmic questions
    of good and evil, or with achieving a particular scientific or
    technological breakthrough. In any case, this character believes
    that by discovering the truth, they can ultimately better society,
    or can conversely use that knowledge to their exclusive
    advantage.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Power: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character craves clout. They have a lust for
    all the benefits and privileges that go with command, and the rest
    of the trappings of power. This character could be motivated by
    military rank, political influence, or technological power.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Survival: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character wants desperately to live, but
    there are forces at work which seek to destroy the character. This
    character may be a fugitive, a radical visionary, the last of a
    family or other group, or someone that can be exploited by others.
    They put their own survival ahead of other concerns.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Truth: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is suspicious of the world in some
    way, and seeks to uncover the truth. Perhaps the character was the
    victim of a smear campaign, or has knowledge that a government or
    corporation has knowingly lied to the public. By seeking to uncover
    and publicize the truth, this character feels they can rectify some
    past wrong.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Vengeance: ]{.c6 .c7}[Someone (or something) committed a heinous
    wrong against this character in the past, and now the character is
    on a quest of revenge to right that wrong, no matter the costs.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Winning: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character seeks to be the very best at
    what they do. They seek to become the best scientist, soldier,
    athlete, artist, etc. in the world, and they are constantly testing
    their abilities in order to achieve perfection. The intrinsic
    motivation to excel is all that matters.]{.c6}

### Traits

[A character should begin play with at least one, but no more than three
traits. A trait is a general personality characteristic that is used for
roleplaying purposes. They may be good or bad (or both),
]{.c0}[and]{.c6}[ they ]{.c0}[determine (to a degree) how the character
interacts with the world. ]{.c6}[Tra]{.c0}[its do not convey in-game
bonuses, but they can be used to guide players in the usage of certain
skills, or in mannerisms that can be used to emphasize the uniqueness of
their characters.]{.c6}[ It is recommended that the GM award one XP per
rest to players who engage in good roleplaying via their traits. The
sample trait list ]{.c0}[below is by no means exhaustive, but it can be
a starting point for players to choose their character's traits.]{.c6}

-   [Admirer: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character admires and/idolizes someone.
    Their idol could perhaps be a family member, historical figure,
    religious figure, or celebrity, etc. The character constantly seeks
    to imitate their idol's behavior, and frequently brings up their
    idol in conversation, whether applicable or not.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Aggressive: ]{.c6 .c7}["Might makes right" is this character's
    motto. Aggressive characters are unafraid to assert themselves
    intimidatingly or in  a hostile fashion into situations.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Amicable: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is easygoing and makes friends
    easily, regardless of sex, gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality, etc.
    They know enough ice-breakers to make even the most obstinate
    adversary warm to them.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Apathetic: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character finds it very difficult to
    really care about anything. Maybe they believe that nothing matters
    in the end, or maybe they lack the knowledge to form opinions.
    Apathetic characters may be aloof, indifferent, or even cynical at
    times.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Brave: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is unafraid to stand their ground,
    even against insurmountable odds, regardless of the situation or
    consequences. Brave characters believe that their power exists to
    help those who are less fortunate, and that heroes are needed. They
    often emulate romantic ideas of medieval knights, swashbucklers, or
    Wild West lawmen.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Calm: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character remains calm in almost every
    situation, and rarely raises their voice or succumbs to emotions,
    even in world-shattering cases. They have an even-keeled perception
    of the world.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Careless: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has a penchant for breaking
    things and for getting into accidents. For some reason they find it
    difficult keeping their hands to themselves, and will trip or
    stumble at the slightest impediment.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Celebrity: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is well-known in certain
    circles (art, music, craftsmanship, politics, etc.). They can
    capitalize on their fame in many cases, but they are easily offended
    when they encounter someone who does not know of or appreciate their
    fame.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Charmer:]{.c6 .c7}[ This character has perfected the art of
    "kissing ass," or "brownnosing" to get what they want. They are
    always spewing flattering statements and compliments, especially
    when they can gain or benefit by doing so.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Confident: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has a good sense of their
    abilities and shortcomings, and they also try to encourage others to
    be more confident in their abilities.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Conformist: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is a "team player." A
    conformist character does not like to "stick out," and will do
    almost anything to blend in (clothing, politics, customs, etc.).
    They do not speak up or cause trouble, but simply "go with the
    flow."]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Corrupt: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character lives by a moral code which
    emphasizes their personal gain above all other considerations. A
    corrupt character may still engage in noble or worthy acts as long
    as it advances their agenda.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Cowardly: ]{.c6 .c7}[A cowardly character displays fear in the face
    of adversity, and will flee or avoid danger in most cases.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Defiant: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has a tendency to defy
    authority. They sometimes choose not to see the true situation due
    to their defiance, and often run afoul of legal or political
    authorities.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Despicable: ]{.c6 .c7}[A despicable character has no moral compass
    whatsoever; they are twisted, evil, or possibly insane. Their
    behaviors may be erratic, or may be cool and calculating. They enjoy
    seeing others in pain and hold no regard for any authority other
    than their own.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Determined: ]{.c6 .c7}[When this character sets their mind to
    something, virtually nothing is capable of standing in their way to
    accomplish said goal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Doer: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character tends to be introverted and quiet,
    choosing instead to make their mind known by their deeds. They tend
    to judge others in the same way, by actions rather than
    speeches.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Ear-To-The-Ground: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has a keen tendency to
    gather rumors and gossip wherever they go. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Egalitarian: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character truly sees others as their
    equal, regardless of sex, gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality,
    etc.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Energetic: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is vigorous, full of vitality,
    and possessed of an intensity of expression.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Fair: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has an apt sense of fairness, and
    always tries to solve problems by what seems "fair" or "just."]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Fatalist: ]{.c6 .c7}[To this character, everything happens for a
    reason, and they are disinclined to intervene in what they see as
    events taking their preordained course.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Generous: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is giving of their money, time,
    and talents to the point where they can sometimes become
    impoverished.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Hateful: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character possesses a deep-seeded hatred
    against a person, group, place, thing, or organization. They never
    fail to remind others of their animosity.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Hedonist: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character indulges to excess the "bad"
    things in life: alcohol, drugs, gambling, and/or sex. In many cases
    the character is addicted to a certain stimulus, and finds it
    difficult to operate without it for long.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Helpful: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character's nature is to assist others in
    times of need. Perhaps they are driven by an ethical or moral code,
    but a helpful character strives to do good.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Honest: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character says exactly what they are
    thinking, often to the chagrin of others. In some cases, they are
    intuitive of others' emotions and speak aloud what others are
    thinking or feeling. Honest characters are loath to tell lies and
    will refrain from cheating, even when there is no incentive for
    doing so.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Humble: ]{.c6 .c7}[Humble characters do not boast of their deeds
    and accomplishments, and prefer to remain out of the limelight.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Impulsive: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character acts first, and then ponders
    the consequences of said actions after the fact.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Insulting: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character sees no benefit to flattery;
    instead, they are perpetually sarcastic and insulting, rarely
    finding anything complimentary to say about anyone or anything.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Intellectual: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is an expert in their field
    of knowledge, whether it be history, science, or something else.
    They cannot help but to lend their expertise when called upon, but
    look down on the less-educated as brutes and imbeciles.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Intolerant: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character subscribes to a narrow
    worldview (social, religious, or ethical) and does not open their
    mind to other points of view. They are quick to judge others who
    stray from their definition of the norm.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Inquisitive: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character always seeks to know how
    things work, and what motivates others. They seek answers to even
    the simplest of questions, such as, "What is around that corner?" To
    them, the constant question is "why?"]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Irritable: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is easily bored and easily
    annoyed. They feel that they have much better things to do than
    whatever it is they are doing at the moment.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Joker: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character prides themself on their sense of
    humor. They are constantly joking or pulling pranks on others, even
    in situations where it is inopportune to do so.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Kleptomaniac: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is a compulsive stealer,
    and tries to pickpocket anything that may be of value.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Know-It-All: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character knows (or think they know)
    nearly everything on every topic. They constantly (mis)quote facts,
    (in)accuracies, and data on whatever topic is up for discussion,
    regardless of skill training.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Lazy: ]{.c6 .c7}[A lazy character is disposed to idleness. They
    would rather relax then exert themselves. They can be sluggish by
    nature, or they can be sort of person who actively goes out of their
    way to avoid work.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Leader: ]{.c6 .c7}[A leader is a natural commander, a take-charge
    sort who relishes the responsibilities and duties of leadership.
    Leaders lead by example, word, and deed, guiding others in
    accomplishing some specific task.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Liar: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is a compulsive liar, and
    constantly try to deceive others, even when there is no good reason
    for doing so.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Loyal: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is devoted to friends, family, or
    others. They will serve and protect those devotees to almost no
    end.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Miser: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is so attached to their money that
    they will constantly haggle or try to find a better deal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Modern: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character goes to great lengths to dress
    fashionably, and to be up-to-date on current media and
    technology.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Mysterious: ]{.c6 .c7}[A mysterious character exudes an air of
    secrecy, sometimes talking in riddles, always keeping something
    hidden from the rest of the world.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Narcissist: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is compelled to be the center
    of attention at all times, and is easily upset when they are
    not.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Naturalist: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character feels "at-home" when in a
    natural environment, or when surrounded by animals. In some cases,
    this character may be intensely awkward when in a human, urban, or
    other social setting.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Observant: ]{.c6 .c7}[When in a new situation, this character's
    priority is to scout the area for exits, threats, valuables, or
    other items of interest. They also tend to notice things out of the
    ordinary.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Ominous: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is menacing and threatening in
    manner, appearance, or deed.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Optimistic: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is optimistic (maybe
    insufferably so) in nearly all situations. They constantly see the
    silver lining to every cloud.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Pampered: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is used to the good life: all
    the fine food, drink, luxuries, and entertainment that money can
    afford. They constantly expect such treatment, and are easily
    offended, disgruntled, or discouraged when such a lifestyle is
    impossible, or when they are in crude situations.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive: ]{.c6 .c7}[A passive character accepts the actions of
    others without objection, resistance or complaint. They tend to
    comply with others' commands and suggestions, unless the command or
    suggestion is extreme in nature.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Peacemaker: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is always able to find common
    ground with others, and can relate with even the fiercest of foes.
    They seek to find peaceful and cooperative solutions to problems
    rather than resort to opposition or violence.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Perfectionist: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character strives for perfection in
    a certain area, or in all they do. If things do not go their way, or
    if their results are less than flawless, this character can become
    easily upset. Their perfectionist tendencies can also cause anxiety
    about certain tasks. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Pessimistic: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character sees doom and gloom
    everywhere, believing that every situation is going to end in the
    worst possible way.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Prepared: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character always has a "plan B," or a
    "plan C," and so on. They rarely get flustered when their original
    schemes do not bear fruit because there are other alternate options
    (or so the character thinks).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Quiet: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character rarely speaks, preferring to use
    body language, hand gestures, or grunts to make their meaning
    known.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Religious: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is a sincere devotee to a
    particular religion, and those religious beliefs affect how they see
    the world. For instance, a religious character would see omens and
    the hand(s) of god(s) in their day-to-day lives.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Risk-Taker: ]{.c6 .c7}["Fortune favors the bold," or so says this
    character. They enjoy living their life on the edge, gambling, and
    daring the odds, especially when the payoff is potentially big.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Romantic: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has a tendency to fall in and
    out of love (or infatuation) easily, and pursues the object(s) of
    their affection to a sometimes detrimental degree.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Rough: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character comes from humble stock, and never
    fails to miss an opportunity to remind others of it. They tend to
    have a prejudice against others who do not share their roots among
    the lower tiers of society.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Sensitive: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character takes criticism and insults to
    heart, and is easily discouraged or enraged when faced with
    opposition.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Sheltered: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character had an upbringing which
    sheltered them from the "real world." Perhaps they were raised in an
    isolated tribe somewhere, or joined a religious institution at a
    young age. As such, they possess a certain naivete and obliviousness
    when outside of their familiar setting.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Shop-Talker: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character can't help but talk about
    their profession, job, career, etc., often to the dismay of others
    outside of said profession.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Shy: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character intentionally avoids social
    situations, and will sometimes even hide to remain unnoticed by
    others in order to do so.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Skeptical: ]{.c6 .c7}[A skeptical character demands proof of
    everything. They doubt, question, and usually don't want to believe
    anything at face value.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Snob: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is an aficionado of something:
    food, wine, art, music, etc., and looks down on others who do not
    share their "expert" opinion.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Storyteller: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is familiar with a specific
    cultural or religious body of knowledge, and frequently references
    or quotes stories and passages that apply or provide insight to
    various situations.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Tempestuous: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character undergoes many mood swings,
    oftentimes for no good reason.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Thinker: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is so focused on their inner
    mind, ideas, and its workings, that they often ignore what is going
    on in the world outside them.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Tolerant: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is accepting of nearly all
    viewpoints, religions, and lifestyles, and does not pass judgment on
    those who differ from their view of the norm.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Traumatized: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has experienced things that
    few others have; as a result, they experience intense anxiety when
    presented with similar situations.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Trusting: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character is extremely gullible, and is
    inclined to believe or confide in anyone readily, without doubt or
    hesitation.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Uncivilized: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has been (un)intentionally
    raised in situations that deemphasize or delegitimize social graces.
    As a result, they often eat and act like animals in such such
    situations.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Untrusting: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character finds it hard to place trust
    in others, even those that they have known for a long time. When in
    situations with strangers, this character may be paranoid, or may
    covet their possessions in order to avoid theft.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Wanderlust: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character seeks new adventures, new
    experiences, and new places. They quickly become bored if cooped up,
    or if in one place for too long.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Wrathful: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character never forgets a wrong. If
    offended by another, they will go to extreme lengths to punish the
    offender, or to exact retribution.]{.c2 .c0}

### Bonds


[A bond is a deep connection that a character feels towards a person,
group, place, or thing. Bonds may be positive in nature]{.c0}[ (i.e. the
character is deeply grateful to their former military unit for their
comradeship in combat) or negative (i.e. the character owes a
significant debt to a criminal organization). In all cases, bonds
establish a character's relationship with the rest of the world.
]{.c6}[It is recommended that characters begin play with one strong
bond, and perhaps one or two weaker bonds. These help establish a
character's backstory, and ground the character in the world. They may
also be used as plot devices by the GM.]{.c0}

Standard Physical Abilities
---------------------------

[The standards listed below are the maximum values in each category for
each character. CyberWare adds to these standard abilities (see
CyberWare for more information). Any attempts to perform physical feats
within these parameters may necessitate an Athletics, Acrobatics, or
Endurance check (GM discretion), and even so, may not be possible.]{.c2
.c0}

-   [Standing Jump: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A standing jump measures the
    horizontal distance a character can leap from a standstill position.
    A character may make a second action in a combat phase while making
    a standing jump, but the second action suffers DA.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/4 meters max distance]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [St    |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| anding |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| Jump   |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [0.5   | [0.7   | [1     | [1.25  | [1.5   | [1.75  |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | 5]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [0.7   | [1     | [1.25  | [1.5   | [1.75  | [2     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 5]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [1     | [1.25  | [1.5   | [1.75  | [2     | [2.25  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [1.25  | [1.5   | [1.75  | [2     | [2.25  | [2.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [1.5   | [1.75  | [2     | [2.25  | [2.5   | [2.75  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [1.7   | [2     | [2.25  | [2.25  | [2.75  | [3     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 5]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Running Jump: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A running jump measures the
    horizontal distance a character can leap when given at least a 2m
    running start. A character may attempt a secondary action while
    making a running jump, but a character who attempts this action
    suffers DA on the check. Additionally, the next action taken by the
    character in the next combat phase also suffers DA.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/2 meters max distance (need at least 2 meters running
    start)]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [R     |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| unning |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| Jump   |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [1     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   | [6     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Vertical jump: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A vertical jump measures the
    vertical distance a character can leap from a standstill position.
    Note that the distances shown here apply to the character's feet and
    legs, and would therefore also expand a character's reach. A
    character may make a second action in a combat phase while making a
    vertical jump, but the second action suffers DA.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/6 meters max height]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [Ve    |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| rtical |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| Jump   |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [0.33  | [0.5   | [0.67  | [0.83  | [1     | [1.17  |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [0.5   | [0.67  | [0.83  | [1     | [1.17  | [1.33  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [0.67  | [0.83  | [1     | [1.17  | [1.33  | [1.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [0.83  | [1     | [1.17  | [1.33  | [1.5   | [1.67  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [1     | [1.17  | [1.33  | [1.5   | [1.67  | [1.83  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [1.17  | [1.33  | [1.5   | [1.67  | [1.83  | [2     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Encumbrance: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[As mentioned in the "Gear and Money"
    section, the Teleios system is not designed to be punitive in making
    characters account for each kg of gear they are carrying. Instead,
    the Encumbrance listed below would be used for cases in which a
    character would also be lugging along extra gear for story purposes
    (such as carrying out the unconscious body of a fallen comrade).
    ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [FORTx6 kg without penalty]{.c1}

  ------------------- ------------------------------------
  [FORT Score]{.c1}   [Encumbrance without Penalty]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}        [6kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}        [12kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}        [18kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}        [24kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}        [30kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}        [36kg]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------- ------------------------------------

-   [Climbing: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A character's climbing rate measures the
    distance they can travel\--vertically, horizontally, or both\--while
    all of their limbs are engaged in the activity of climbing.
    Attempting to perform another action while climbing\--whether
    actively climbing or simply holding on\--imposes DA on the related
    check.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/8 meters/phase]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [Cl    |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| imbing |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| /phase |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [0.25  | [0.38  | [0.5   | [0.63  | [0.75  | [0.88  |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [0.38  | [0.5   | [0.63  | [0.75  | [0.88  | [1     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [0.5   | [0.63  | [0.75  | [0.88  | [1     | [1.13  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [0.63  | [0.75  | [0.88  | [1     | [1.13  | [12.5  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [0.75  | [0.88  | [1     | [1.13  | [1.25  | [1.38  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [0.88  | [1     | [1.13  | [1.25  | [1.38  | [1.55  |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Walking: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[In most situations, it is assumed that
    characters are walking during combat. Secondary actions while
    walking may be attempted and suffer no ordinary penalties.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/2 meters/phase]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [W     |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| alking |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| /phase |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [1     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   | [6     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Running: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Running greatly increases a character's
    movement, but imposes DA on secondary actions taken in the same
    combat phase.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Walk x2 meters/phase]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [R     |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| unning |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| /phase |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     | [7     |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     | [7     | [8     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     | [7     | [8     | [9     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [5     | [6     | [7     | [8     | [9     | [10    |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [6     | [7     | [8     | [9     | [10    | [11    |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [7     | [8     | [9     | [10    | [11    | [12    |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Swimming: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A swimming character is one who is
    engaged in the activity using all of their limbs. If a character who
    is swimming attempts another action in the same combat phase, that
    action is rolled with DA.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [(FORT+AGI)/2 meters/phase]{.c1}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [Sw    |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| imming |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| /phase |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [AGI   | [1     | [1     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [1.5   | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [2     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [2.5   | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [3     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [3.5   | [4     | [4.5   | [5     | [5.5   | [6     |
|        | ]{.c1} | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 | m]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

-   [Throwing: ]{.c6 .c7}[This measures the distance a character can
    throw a small object weighing up to 1-2 kg or so (such as a grenade
    or a baseball). Allowances should be made for items which reduce or
    increase air friction (like throwing a leather jacket versus a
    javelin). Also note that in order to make a throw accurately, a
    character would need to use the Ranged skill.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [FORTx6 meters max distance]{.c1}



  ------------------- --------------------------
  [FORT Score]{.c1}   [Throwing Distance]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}        [6m]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}        [12m]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}        [18m]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}        [24m]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}        [30m]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}        [36m]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------- --------------------------



-   [Lift: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This measures how many kg a character can
    lift above their heads. A character who is lifting in this fashion
    may move at half of their Walk movement speed. Other actions while
    lifting may not be possible (if hands are required, for instance) or
    they may suffer DA.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [FORTx24 kg max]{.c1}





  ------------------- ------------------
  [FORT Score]{.c1}   [Max Lift]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}        [24kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}        [48kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}        [72kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}        [96kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}        [120kg]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}        [144kg]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------- ------------------



-   [Holding Breath: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The times listed here assume that
    the character is not engaged in strenuous activity (like fighting,
    lifting, or running). In those cases, the GM should reduce the
    listed times by 30 seconds for the duration.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [1 minute + (FORTx30 seconds)]{.c1}





  ------------------- ----------------------------
  [FORT Score]{.c1}   [Holding Breath Time]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}        [1m 30s]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}        [2m]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}        [2m 30s]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}        [3m]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}        [3m 30s]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}        [4m]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------- ----------------------------



-   [Languages: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The GM in your campaign may have
    alternate rules when it comes to knowing languages, but in this
    context, knowing a language implies being able to read, write,
    speak, and understand it. A character who knows a language, but who
    wants to change their inflection or accent would need to use a skill
    such as Bureaucracy, Charm, Deception, or Streetwise. It is a good
    idea to check with your GM to see which language(s) might be good to
    know in your campaign.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [INT number of languages fluently known]{.c1}


  ------------------ ------------------------
  [INT Score]{.c1}   [Languages Known]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}       [1]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}       [2]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}       [3]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}       [4]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}       [5]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}       [6]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------ ------------------------



-   [Actions per Round: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This chart determines how many
    actions a character gets to take in a round of combat. Remember, a
    round of combat lasts 20 seconds, and is divided into four phases,
    each lasting 5 seconds long. A character cannot have more than 4
    actions per combat round for any reason (not including a surprise
    round).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [FORT+PERS/4 (rounded up (between 1-3))]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [FORT+PERS between 2-4 = 1 action per round]{.c1}
-   [FORT+PERS between 5-8 = 2 actions per round]{.c1}
-   [FORT+PERS between 9-12 = 3 actions per round]{.c1}=

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [A     |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ctions |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| /round |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [PERS  | [1     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | 1]{.c2 | 1]{.c2 | 1]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
|        | ]{.c1} | 1]{.c2 | 1]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
|        | ]{.c1} | 1]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
|        | ]{.c1} | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
|        | ]{.c1} | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      | [      |
|        | ]{.c1} | 2]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

\newpage