Core Rules
==========

[THE GAME MECHANIC]{.c1}

[Players]{.c6}[ roll ]{.c0}[no fewer than one]{.c6 .c7}[ but ]{.c6}[no
more than twelve ]{.c6 .c7}[six-sided dice in or]{.c0}[der to perform
]{.c6}[actions]{.c6 .c7}[. Rolling dice is called a ]{.c0}[check]{.c6
.c7 .c13}[. The number of dice rolled is equal to ]{.c0}[the sum of a
character's rank in a Skill or psionic Power and its corresponding
Attribute, so more talent and training allows characters to roll more
dice, giving a greater chance of success. ]{.c6}[A result of 5 on a die
scores one ]{.c0}[hit]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ and a result of 6 on a die scores
two hits. A result of 1 on a die subtracts one hit. Results of 2, 3, and
4 have no effect. After the check is made, the player adds all hits
together. The resulting number of hits determines, by degree, the level
of success (or failure) that results from the attempted action. ]{.c2
.c0}

-   [≤0 hits = Marginal/Failure.]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ The attempted action
    does not succeed, and the GM gets to ]{.c0}[t]{.c6}[ake ]{.c0}[a
    ]{.c6}[reaction]{.c6 .c7}[. ]{.c0}[Reactions made by the
    GM]{.c6}[ ]{.c0}[are usually]{.c6}[ some sort of complication or
    detrimental effect to the characters. ]{.c0}[GM reactions]{.c6}[ can
    take many forms; for instance, the GM may decide that an enemy
    attacks a character, or that the character is noticed by an enemy.
    Conversely, maybe the GM decides that there is unwelcome news for
    the character, or the character suffers monetary or equipment loss.
    Generally speaking, the GM should design ]{.c0}[their
    reactions]{.c6}[ around the attempted action that a character
    attempted. Also no]{.c0}[te that depending on the circumstances, it
    may be impossible (or otherwise undesirable, for story reasons) for
    a character to "fail" a check outright; in such cases Teleios allows
    for a "marginal" success in which the player's action succeeds, but
    the GM is allowed to take ]{.c6}[two]{.c6 .c7}[ reactions as a
    result. ]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [More about reactions: GM reactions may be "saved" for a later time,
    but the GM can only carry up to three saved reactions between game
    sessions. Like mentioned in "The Story" above, GM reactions, while
    proposed by the GM, should be ultimately agreed upon by the players
    and GM. ]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [1-3 hits = Ordinary.]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ The attempted action succeeds,
    but the GM gets to ]{.c0}[take one reaction]{.c6}[ as well.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [4-5 hits = Good. ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The attempted action
    succeeds]{.c0}[ with no accompanying GM reaction.]{.c6}
-   [6≤ hits = Amazing. ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The attempted action succeeds
    with an added ]{.c0}[bonus]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ to the character. The
    character can choose the form of the bonus
    (]{.c0}[considerin]{.c6}[g GM and group ]{.c0}[advice and
    consent]{.c6}[). For example, a character may decide that the
    attempted action succeeds to such a degree that the action requires
    less time, or stays in effect longer, or deals more damage, etc. As
    a rule of thumb, any bonus that adds to the efficacy of the
    attempted action should be no more than ]{.c0}[33% better]{.c6 .c7
    .c13}[. For example, if a Melee attack normally deals 1d6 (LI) body
    damage, an Amazing result would deal 1d6+2 (LI) body damage. The
    character might also decide that as a result of their
    a]{.c0}[maz]{.c6}[ing success, the next related action they]{.c0}[,
    or an ally, attempts]{.c6}[ has advantage.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[It is important to note that t]{.c6}[he GM n]{.c0}[ever
rolls]{.c6}[ dice. GM reactions are only taken as a result of
Marginal/Failure and Ordinary results from ]{.c0}[player actions.
]{.c6}[In cases where an enemy would attack a character, ]{.c0}[a player
rolls that]{.c6}[ character's appropriate defense to determine the
enemy's degree of success. The player would then roll damage dice for
their character as well. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[A note on rounding: In cases where rounding needs to take place,
]{.c6}[round in the way which tells a good story]{.c6 .c7}[. In other
cases, ]{.c6}[round to the benefit of the characters]{.c6 .c7}[. For
instance, if a character recovers half of their three used Luck points
during a rest, they would recover two of the used three. ]{.c6}

[]{.c1}

[ADVANTAGE AND DISADVANTAGE]{.c1}

[Certain situations may make it more or less likely for a character to
succeed at an action. In cases where the character has a greater chance
to succeed, this is called ]{.c0}[advantage ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[(abbreviated
]{.c0}[AD]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[), and in cases where the character has a
smaller chance to succeed, this is called ]{.c0}[disadvantage]{.c6 .c7
.c13}[ (abbreviated ]{.c0}[DA]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[). When making a check with
advantage, results of 4 add one hit to the total, whereas normally they
have no effect. When making a check with disadvantage, results of 5 have
no effect, whereas normally they score one hit. If a character would be
granted advantage or disadvantage from multiple sources, its effects are
only applied once\--]{.c0}[there is no such thing as "super
advantage]{.c6}[!]{.c0}["]{.c6}[ If a character has both advantage and
disadvantage on a check, even from ]{.c0}[multiple sources,]{.c6}[ the
two cancel each other out and the check is rolled as normal.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[LUCK]{.c1}

[Characters have a number of luck points (LP) equal to their AGI+3. When
a character makes a check and dislikes the result, they may choose to
spend a luck point to do one of the following actions:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Automatically add two hits to the result of the check]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Re-roll any dice of the player's choosing in the check and use the
    new result]{.c2 .c0}

[Only one luck point may be spent on any given check; for instance, a
character could not spend two luck points to add four hits to a check.
Likewise, if a player chooses to reroll some dice from their check, they
must use the new result and cannot use a second luck point to reroll
again. Characters regain one used luck point ]{.c0}[when taking a rest,
and restore all of their available luck points upon achieving a
milestone.]{.c6}

-   [NOTE: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Cybered characters who activate a piece of
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ (and therefore add dice to their pool)
    ]{.c0}[are able to]{.c6}[ reroll ALL of their dice when spending LP,
    including their added dice from their
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ activation.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[ATTRIBUTES]{.c1}

[All characters have four basic attributes: Fortitude (FORT), Agility
(AGI), Intellect (INT), and Personality (PERS). Character scores in
these attributes can range from 1-6; however, as a ]{.c0}[starting
character]{.c6 .c7}[ no attribute may begin play above rank 4. Details
on the attributes are below.]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Fortitude (FORT)]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ represents a character's strength,
    toughness, and stamina. FORT is important for the Athletics,
    Endurance, and Melee skills. It is also a factor in melee damage,
    calculating ma]{.c0}[ximum pieces of]{.c6}[ ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[,
    body and stun durability, actions per round, and physical
    defense.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks: ]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [When FORT is referenced as part of a check for skills  (for
    example, when rolling damage for the Melee skill), this perk allows
    the character to use 2x their FORT score, rather than just their
    FORT score. So a character with this Expertise Perk and a FORT score
    of 4 would add 8 to damage from the Melee skill rather than 4.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   []{.c1}

[]{.c1}

-   [Agility (AGI) ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[represents a character's quickness,
    balance, and speed. AGI is important for the Acrobatics, Ranged,
    Stealth, Thievery, and Vehicles skills. It is also used to calculate
    luck points, initiative order, and physical defense.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [When AGI is used to add to a roll as part of a skill check (for
    example, when rolling ranged damage), this perk allows the character
    to use 2x their AGI score, rather than just their AGI score. So a
    character with this Expertise Perk and an AGI score of 4 would add 8
    to Ranged damage.]{.c6}

[]{.c1}

-   [Intellect (INT) ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[represents a character's knowledge,
    adaptability, and rational thinking. INT is important for the
    Bureaucracy, Computers, Deduce, ]{.c0}[Humanities]{.c6}[, Medicine,
    Outdoors, Science, Search, Tactics, and Technology skills. It is
    also important for calculating beginning XP, initiative order, some
    psionic]{.c0}[ skills]{.c6}[, and mental defense.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Linguist: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character knows an additional 2 languages
    (this perk may be taken more than once).]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

-   [Personality (PERS)]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ represents a character's
    willpower, sanity, and charisma. PERS is important for the Animals,
    Charm, Deception, Occult, Resolve, and Streetwise skills. It factors
    into a character's mental defense, actions per round]{.c0}[,
    some]{.c6}[ psionic]{.c0}[ skills]{.c6}[, and stun durability.]{.c2
    .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

[]{.c1}

[OPTIONAL ATTRIBUTES]{.c1}

[Additionally, all characters have two optional attributes: Cyberware
(CYB) and Psionics (PSI). A player may choose to acquire ranks in PSI or
CYB or both (or neither), whether at character creation or later as the
character gains XP. Both PSI and CYB may be increased in rank from 1-6;
however, if a character has ranks in both PSI and CYB, the]{.c0}[ sum of
those two cannot exceed 6]{.c6 .c7}[. For instance, a character choosing
to specialize in ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ may have a CYB score of 6, but
that same character would then be prohibited from acquiring any psionic
abilities whatsoever. Specific details on the optional attributes are
described later ]{.c0}[in the Psionics and CyberWare sections,
respectively]{.c6}[.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[DEFENSES]{.c1}

[Characters have two defenses that are checked when they are attacked by
enemies or by the environment: physical defense (]{.c0}[PD]{.c6 .c7
.c13}[) and mental defense (]{.c0}[MD]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[). A character
checks their physical defense when an enemy targets their body (such as
with a ]{.c0}[M]{.c6}[elee or ]{.c0}[R]{.c6}[anged attack). A character
checks their mental defense when an enemy targets their willpower or
sanity (such as with Deception or certain psionic attacks). Both
physical and mental defense range from 2-12 dice (FORT+AGI for physical
defense and INT+PERS for mental defense). When a check is necessary, the
character rolls the appropriate defense and calculates levels of success
as normal. The result (Failure, Ordinary, Good, or Amazing) dictates the
effect of the attack on the character.]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Marginal/Failure = ]{.c6 .c7}[The character suffers the negative
    effects of the attack, and also suffers an additional setback from
    the attack. Examples might include rolling DA on their next check,
    or else amplifying the negative effects of the attack by an
    additional 33%. The additional setback should be story-driven and
    should be collaboratively decided between the player and GM.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Ordinary = ]{.c6 .c7}[The character suffers the negative effects of
    the attack, but no further setback.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Good = ]{.c6 .c7}[The character does not suffer any negative
    effects from the attack.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Amazing = ]{.c6 .c7}[The character does not suffer any negative
    effects from the attack. Additionally, the character may roll their
    next check with AD ]{.c6}[or]{.c6 .c7}[ may negate the next reaction
    taken by the GM (player chooses).]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[INITIATIVE & ACTIONS]{.c1}

[Combat encounters are divided into "rounds." Each round in combat is
equal to ]{.c0}[20]{.c6}[ seconds in game time; therefore,
]{.c0}[3]{.c6}[ rounds equal 1 minute. Furthermore, each round of 20
seconds is divided into ]{.c0}[four]{.c6}[ "phases," each lasting
]{.c0}[5]{.c6}[ seconds. The ]{.c0}[four]{.c6}[ phases in each round
relate to one of the degrees of success; in order, the Amazing, Good,
Ordinary, and Margina]{.c0}[l degrees]{.c6}[. In cases where it is
important to know who acts first, such as in a combat, characters roll
an initiative (]{.c0}[INIT]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[) check. Initiative ranges
from 2-12 dice, and is calculated by ]{.c0}[AGI+INT]{.c6 .c7}[. When a
check is necessary, the character rolls initiative and calculates levels
of success as normal. The result (Amazing, Good, Ordinary, or Marginal)
]{.c0}[dictates the phase]{.c6}[ in which characters may make their
actions. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

[When combat begins, all characters involved roll INIT. The result of
that check (Amazing, Good,]{.c0}[ Ordinary, or Marginal]{.c6}[)
determines the phase in which that character can first act. Thereafter,
characters may make an action in any subsequent phase (provided they
have actions available). So, if a character rolls a Good result on
th]{.c0}[eir initiative check]{.c6}[, they cannot act in the Amazing
phase (which comes first), but can take an action when the Good phase
comes up. Since there are only ]{.c0}[four]{.c6}[ phases per combat
round, it is likely that multiple characters (and enemies) will act in
the same phase. All actions in a phase are considered to occur
simultaneously, with the effects of those actions taking effect at the
end of the phase. So, if a character and an enemy NPC both successfully
attack each other in the Ordinary phase, both receive damage at the end
of th]{.c0}[at]{.c6}[ phase but before the start of the Marginal phase.
]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[In all combat phases, a character ]{.c0}[may]{.c6}[ move and attempt an
action. Some mo]{.c0}[des of movement (running, jumping, etc.) can
impose disadvantage on various checks. ]{.c6}[A character can make as
many actions per round as they have actions available (see Actions per
Round). So, if a character has two actions per round and rolls a Good
result on their INIT check, they can begin to take actions beginning in
the Good phase. Thereafter, the second action could be taken in the
Ordinary phase or the Marginal phase (]{.c0}[player choice)]{.c6}[. That
equates to (as an example):]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

-   [One action in each the Good and Ordinary phases]{.c0}
-   [One action in each the Good and Marginal phases (delaying the
    second action)]{.c0}
-   [One action in each the Ordinary and Marginal phases (delaying both
    actions)]{.c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Note that if a character first acts in the Marginal phase (the last
combat phase), they can only take one action that round. This may mean
that characters lose actions because they didn't act quickly enough. At
the end of the Marginal phase (and therefore the combat round), all
participating combatants re-roll their INIT and the next round begins
with the Amazing phase. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Some situations, skills, and CyberWare can grant characters a Surprise
round. A Surprise round in combat is granted due to superior
positioning, preparation, and/or guile. A Surprise round occurs before
the Amazing round in a combat scene. Each character and NPC
participating in a Surprise round can move and take one action as
normal, but those actions are rolled with advantage against all who do
not act. A character acting in a Surprise round against an NPC also
acting in the Surprise round would gain the extra movement and action,
but would not roll that action with advantage. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[SKILLS]{.c1}

[Nearly everything characters can do in ]{.c0}[Teleios]{.c6}[ is
represented by skills. Each skill is tied to one of the four basic
attributes and can have a rank of 0 (untrained) to 6. ]{.c0}[A beginning
character cannot have a skill with a rank higher than 4.]{.c6 .c7}[ When
making a skill check, the character adds the number of ranks in the
selected skill (between 0 and 6) with their rank in the linked attribute
(between 1 and 6) and rolls that many dice for the check. As an example,
a character who makes a Ranged check adds their ranks in the Ranged
skill with their ranks in AGI (the linked attribute). Note that this
same basic system is used for psionic powers, w]{.c0}[ith a couple of
notable changes (see Psionics below).]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[UNTRAINED]{.c1}

[When a character has 0 ranks in a skill or psionic power, they are
considered to be ]{.c0}[untrained]{.c6 .c7}[. In some cases a character
may not use a skill untrained (as in the case of psionic powers). In all
other cases, ]{.c0}[using a skill untrained imposes disadvantage]{.c6
.c7}[ on the skill check.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[PERKS]{.c1}

[Perks are special, unique abilities associated with skills, psionic
powers, and attributes that players can tailor to their character
concept and style of play (pending GM approval). There are
t]{.c0}[wo]{.c6}[ levels of perks: training
perks]{.c0}[ and]{.c6}[ expertise perks.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Training Perks]{.c1}

[Training perks only apply to skills. When a character is trained (has
at least one rank) in a skill, they have the opportunity to purchase
training perks. Training perks are]{.c0}[ ]{.c6}[not very powerful, but
they should incentivize and encourage creative playing. Training perks
must be purchased at the cost of one XP each, and some players may
choose to spend XP elsewhere rather than specialize on training perks. A
character ]{.c0}[is not limited to the number of training perks they
purchase, but a player cannot obtain multiple training perks that grant
the same benefit for the same skill]{.c6}[. Each training perk should be
unique, and should be collaboratively decided between the player and the
GM, but generally speaking, training perks can do the following:]{.c2
.c0}

-   [Specialization: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Provide advantage on skill checks
    in certain situations.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Example:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ A character gains a perk in Melee that
    gives them advantage to attacking an enemy who is currently
    ]{.c0}[fighting]{.c6}[ with at least one other ally.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Example:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ A character gains a perk in
    ]{.c0}[Humanities]{.c6}[ that gives them advantage on checks dealing
    with native Mesoamerican tribes.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Example:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ A character gains a perk in Search that
    gives them advantage when using the skill ]{.c0}[in desert
    environments]{.c6}[.]{.c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Contacts: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Give the character beneficial contacts in
    the world. ]{.c0}[In some cases the contact can provide shelter,
    information, or other resources to benefit the character. The use of
    a contact should be limited to once per milestone, or as the story
    dictates.]{.c6}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Example: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A character gains a perk in Ranged that
    gives them a beneficial contact in a military or police force
    (perhaps as a shooting range instructor) that can provide aid and
    assistance to the character as the plot of the campaign dictates,
    and assuming the character is able to communicate with their
    contact. ]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Gear: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Acquire gear associated with that particular
    skill, or improve gear once acquired.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Example: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A character gains a perk in the Computers
    skill and acquires a personal computer as described in the "Gear"
    section.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Example:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ A character gains a perk in Medicine, and
    so they improve an already-purchased medkit, ]{.c0}[and ]{.c6}[no
    longer roll DA when using the medkit to heal damage on
    the]{.c0}[mselves, as per normal]{.c6}[. (Note that in order to
    improve gear, the character must have already purchased an earlier
    perk to acquire it.)]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Expertise Perks]{.c1}

[As a character grows and becomes better in their
]{.c0}[talents]{.c6}[ they become "experts." ]{.c0}[Once a character
reaches]{.c6}[ rank 4 in a skill]{.c0}[, ]{.c6}[psionic power, or
attribute ]{.c0}[they]{.c6}[ ]{.c0}[may then purchase ]{.c6}[expertise
perks for 1XP each. ]{.c0}[However, ]{.c6}[a character can only have one
expertise perk for each rank between 4 and 6]{.c6 .c7}[. In other words,
a character with a rank of 5 in Deception could have up to 2 expertise
perks (one each for rank 4 and rank 5), but they could not have a third
expertise perk until attaining rank 6 in that skill. Of course, that
same character with a rank 5 in Deception could choose to have no
expertise perks in that skill\--they are optional just as training
perks. This also means that no skill, psionic power, or attribute may
have more than three expertise perks. ]{.c6}[Expertise perks are listed
for all skills, powers, and attributes, but ]{.c0}[other
options]{.c6}[ ]{.c0}[c]{.c6}[ould be collaboratively created between
the player and the GM if none of the listed perks suit your
character]{.c0}['s style of play]{.c6}[. ]{.c0}[Characters who choose to
retrain an expertise perk for another would still need to spend 1 XP in
order to do so.]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}


[RESTING]{.c1}

[During the course of play, characters will want to (and need to) take a
break from the action in order to restore lost durability, psychovolts,
and batteries. In game terms, these characters "rest" from their
activities. In order to rest, characters need to declare that they are
resting. Doing so means that the characters spend the next six hours of
game-time sleeping, relaxing, meditating, or otherwise not performing
arduous tasks. While resting, characters can attempt to use skills and
powers to recover lost durability, batteries, and psychovolts; more
detail on recovery is provided in the following sections. Additionally,
all characters automatically restore one Luck Point when resting, not to
exceed their maximums. In some cases (GM discretion) it may not be
possible for characters to rest. For example, if the characters are
sneaking their way into a hostile organization's secret military base, a
rest in the middle of that scene would not be appropriate. Resting is
not without consequence; whenever characters rest, the GM is able to
advance the plot without the characters' interference. This may mean
(for instance) that an enemy gets closer to their goal while the
characters rested, or that an upcoming task will be more difficult for
the characters due to their dalliance. This evens the odds, since the
characters will be stronger, but so will their opposition.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

[]{#t.f705639638dabbc7c35b17db2b2b631cd2cad14a}[]{#t.1}

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Quick Reference when             |                                   |
| Resting]{.c1}                     |                                   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Luck Points]{.c1}                | -   [Automatically restore 1 Luck |
|                                   |     Point, if able]{.c2 .c0}      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Stun Durability]{.c1}            | -   [Automatically restore all    |
|                                   |     STUN durability]{.c2 .c0}     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Endurance (1x)]{.c1}             | -   [Success: Restore 1 BODY      |
|                                   |     durability in self]{.c2 .c0}  |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Medicine (1x)]{.c1}              | -   [Success: Restore 1d3 BODY    |
|                                   |     durability (or 1d6 with a     |
|                                   |     medical kit) in self or other |
|                                   |     (all characters)]{.c2 .c0}    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Resolve (1x)]{.c1}               | -   [Success: Restore 3           |
|                                   |     psychovolts to self (psionic  |
|                                   |     characters only)]{.c2 .c0}    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| [Technology (1x)]{.c1}            | -   [Success: Repair one broken   |
|                                   |     item or piece of              |
|                                   |     CyberWare]{.c2 .c0}           |
|                                   | -   [Success: Restore 3 batteries |
|                                   |     to self (cybered characters   |
|                                   |     only)]{.c2 .c0}               |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

[]{.c1}

[MILESTONES]{.c1}

[Since the Teleios game system is a story-driven system, there will come
various times when the characters will resolve certain plotlines, or
will otherwise move the direction of the story to new areas. Such
occurrences are called ]{.c6}[milestones]{.c6 .c7}[. The GM decides when
the characters have achieved a milestone. At each milestone, all lost
durability, luck, psychovolts, and batteries are restored. If characters
possess Gear which "recharges" at each milestone, then those do so.
Additionally, it is recommended that the GM award characters between 1-3
XP which aligns to the significance of the milestone. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

[DURABILITY & DAMAGE]{.c1}

[Characters have two stats which represent their health and
well-being:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Body (BODY) Durability:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ This represents
    (relatively) permanent physical harm to a character. Damage to
    B]{.c0}[ODY durability generally occurs when a character is
    physically attacked by another, or when the character suffers pain
    as a result of environmental factors (accidents, heat, cold, etc.).
    All BODY durability are restored at each milestone, but restoring
    BODY during a rest requires the use of other skills and powers.
    ]{.c6}[When a character's BODY drops to 0, they die.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [A character's Body Durability is equal to their (FORTx3)+12]{.c2
    .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[]{#t.fc0523c28bc1cb045f296dc7a9ccf6195a5a2d54}[]{#t.2}

  ------------------- ------------------------
  [FORT Score]{.c1}   [BODY Durability]{.c1}
  [1]{.c2 .c0}        [15]{.c2 .c0}
  [2]{.c2 .c0}        [18]{.c2 .c0}
  [3]{.c2 .c0}        [21]{.c2 .c0}
  [4]{.c2 .c0}        [24]{.c2 .c0}
  [5]{.c2 .c0}        [27]{.c2 .c0}
  [6]{.c2 .c0}        [30]{.c2 .c0}
  ------------------- ------------------------

[]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Stun (STUN) Durability : ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This represents a
    character's physical and mental strain and exhaustion. ]{.c0}[Damage
    to STUN durability occurs as a result of physical attacks and the
    environment. STUN damage can also happen as a result of shock,
    exhaustion, horror, or some psionic effects. STUN damage is
    fleeting; during a rest, all STUN points are automatically restored.
    ]{.c6}[When a character's STUN drops to 0, they fall
    unconscious.]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [A character's Stun Durability is equal to their
    ((FORT+PERS)x3)+12]{.c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[]{#t.8fcecd0e30f333bf48a464f1d9bd8052f0d7337f}[]{#t.3}

+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [      |        | [FORT  |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        | Score  |        |        |        |        |        |
|        |        | ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |
| [STUN  |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| Dura   |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| bility |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
| ]{.c1} |        |        |        |        |        |        |        |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        |        | [1     | [2     | [3     | [4     | [5     | [6     |
|        |        | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} | ]{.c1} |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
| [PERS  | [1     | [1     | [2     | [2     | [2     | [3     | [3     |
| Score  | ]{.c1} | 8]{.c2 | 1]{.c2 | 4]{.c2 | 7]{.c2 | 0]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 |
| ]{.c1} |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [2     | [2     | [2     | [2     | [3     | [3     | [3     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 1]{.c2 | 4]{.c2 | 7]{.c2 | 0]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 6]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [3     | [2     | [2     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [3     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 4]{.c2 | 7]{.c2 | 0]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 6]{.c2 | 9]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [4     | [2     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 7]{.c2 | 0]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 6]{.c2 | 9]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [5     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [4     | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 0]{.c2 | 3]{.c2 | 6]{.c2 | 9]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 5]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
|        | [6     | [3     | [3     | [3     | [4     | [4     | [4     |
|        | ]{.c1} | 3]{.c2 | 6]{.c2 | 9]{.c2 | 2]{.c2 | 5]{.c2 | 8]{.c2 |
|        |        | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   | .c0}   |
+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Damage Types]{.c1}

[In the course of a campaign it is likely that characters take damage.
There are four damage types:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Low-Impact (LI) Damage: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This is damage caused by
    things such as melee attacks and other
    ]{.c0}[subsonic]{.c6}[ projectiles. Armor is generally effective at
    blocking this type of damage.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [High-Impact (HI) Damage:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ This is damage caused by
    high-velocity projectiles, such as ranged weapon attacks and
    explosions. Armor is less-effective at blocking HI damage, but it is
    better than nothing.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Energy (EN) Damage: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This is damage caused by varied
    forms of energy, like fire, electricity, extreme cold,
    psion]{.c0}[ic energy, ]{.c6}[etc. Armor is generally effective at
    blocking this damage, but ce]{.c0}[rtain types of energy may be more
    or less harmful to your character, depending on different
    situations]{.c6}[.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Mental (ME) Damage: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[This is damage caused by some
    psionic powers and mental strain as dictated by the GM. No type of
    armor or shield can block ME damage.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

[Armor and Soaking Damage]{.c1}

[Characters who wear Armor, or who have other means of protection, can
absorb some or all of the damage they receive. The Armor provided in the
Gear section has a rating of 1d6 LI/1d3 HI/1d6 EN, meaning that if the
character would receive low-impact (LI) damage, they would first roll
1d6 to see how much of that damage would be soaked by their armor. Any
remaining damage would be incurred to the character as normal. Note that
soaking damage using armor has no effect on secondary damage (see
below), nor does Armor protect against mental (ME) damage. A character
can generally only benefit from Armor once, although some rare
circumstances may allow multiple ways to absorb harm.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c1}

[Secondary Damage]{.c1}

[When a character incurs BODY damage, they may also incur some STUN
damage by the sheer impact of the damage; this is known as secondary
damage. For every 3 points of BODY damage that a character takes from a
single source, they also take 1 additional point of STUN damage
secondarily. This secondary damage follows the normal rules of rounding
in the characters' favors, so an attack that deals 5 BODY damage would
only deal 1 additional STUN damage. Armor is not effective at absorbing
secondary damage.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Knockouts]{.c1}

[As mentioned above, a character is knocked unconscious when their STUN
durability rating drops to zero. A character who is knocked out cannot
take any actions, and any attacks targeted against them automatically
succeed. A character remains unconscious for 6 combat phases (30
seconds) beginning the phase immediately after the knockout, after which
the character can begin making Endurance checks in order to regain
consciousness. A character who regains consciousness in this fashion
also regains STUN durability equal to their FORT+PERS. Unconscious
characters who continue to receive physical damage (low-impact,
high-impact, or energy) incur all damage to their remaining BODY
durability. (Since mental damage only affects STUN, an unconscious
character does not suffer mental damage.)]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Early Knockouts]{.c1}

[Some attacks are so powerful that, in addition to causing secondary
damage, they run the risk of knocking characters out, even if their STUN
durability is well above zero. If a character ever incurs damage equal
to or greater than one-third of their total ]{.c6}[remaining
durability]{.c6 .c7}[, they run the risk of an early knockout. In such a
case, after taking the requisite damage, the character in question would
either roll an Endurance check (for BODY damage) or a Resolve check (for
STUN damage). Any success on those checks means that the character
remains conscious. A Failure would result in the character losing their
remaining STUN durability points and falling unconscious (see
"Knockouts" above).]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}