[CYBERWARE]{.c1}

[Cyber]{.c0}[W]{.c6}[are (CYB) is an optional attribute that can be
raised from 1-6 as can the basic attributes. Even if a starting
character begins with 0 CYB, ranks can be added later. A starting
character cannot have a CYB score higher than rank 4. The following
rules apply to characters with a CYB sco]{.c0}[re of at least
one]{.c6}[:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [A character's FORT score = the maximum number of pieces of
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ that the character can have; however, a
    character cannot have any ]{.c0}[C]{.c6}[yber]{.c0}[W]{.c6}[are
    unless their CYB score is at least 1. Note that this means that a
    character is limited to 6 pieces of ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[, because
    a character's maximum FORT score is 6. (Android characters are
    permitted to have up to seven pieces of ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[, of
    which one is a free ]{.c0}[NanoComputer, and which does not count
    towards this limit]{.c6}[ (see Species below]{.c0}[.))]{.c6}
-   [All CyberWare costs 3 XP to purchase, and if a player chooses to
    retrain a piece of CyberWare, they recover those same 3 XP (not
    counting the 1 XP cost to retrain). There are no ranks for
    CyberWare; characters either have it or they do not.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [All ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ have two modes: active and passive. In
    passive mode, the ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ provides a constant
    benefit (bending the rules somehow by allowing the cybered character
    to engage in activities not normally possible); in active mode, it
    provides a much bigger benefit by increasing the size of the dice
    pool the character uses for skill checks, but requires the usage of
    batteries (BTs). There are some pieces of
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ which do not require skill]{.c0}[ checks.
    These are detailed below.]{.c6}
-   [A character's batteries are equal to 3+CYB. (A character that has a
    CYB score of 0 cannot use nor activate CyberWare.) The internal
    batteries use the character's natural bioelectric energy to power
    and recharge pieces of CyberWare.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [A character who activates a piece of
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ declares how many batteries (BT) are being
    spent on that activation]{.c0}[ before]{.c6 .c7}[ ]{.c0}[making an
    associated skill check]{.c6}[. A character must spend at least 1 BT
    per activation, and may spend as many as they have available. For
    every BT spent in activation, 1 die is added to the character's dice
    pool for the associated skil]{.c0}[l checks]{.c6}[. If 0 BT remain
    at the end of a CyberWare activation, the character ]{.c0}[cannot
    use the active mode of any CyberWare. ]{.c6}[Once a piece of
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ is activated, the activation lasts for the
    next ]{.c0}[10 minutes]{.c6 .c7}[. If the cybered character chooses
    to end the activation earlier than the 10-minute timeframe, a
    Technology skill may be rolled to recover up to half of the expended
    BP. ]{.c0}[However, i]{.c6}[f only one BT was spent on the
    activation, the cybered character]{.c0}[ cannot]{.c6 .c7}[ roll for
    recovery. ]{.c6}[There are some pieces of ]{.c0}[CyberWare which do
    not follow this 10-minute rule, and those are listed below.]{.c6}
-   [All ]{.c0}[BTs are]{.c6}[ restored after a ]{.c0}[milestone]{.c6}[.
    Additionally, ]{.c0}[during a]{.c6}[ rest a cybered character may
    use the Technology skill once to restore lost batteries. Success
    restores 3 BT (not to exceed the character's maximum).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expanded Batteries]{.c6 .c7}[: ]{.c6 .c7}[A cybered character with
    this perk is able to keep pieces of CyberWare activated for longer
    periods of time. Instead of the normal 10-minute activation time, a
    character with this perk has 15 minutes of duration with CyberWare.
    If the cybered character chooses to end their activation of
    CyberWare early, they may still roll Technology to recover half of
    the spent BT, assuming more than one was spent on the
    activation.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Extra Ware: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may acquire up to seven
    pieces of CyberWare (eight for Android characters). ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Fast Recovery: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may use the Technology
    skill twice during rests to regain spent BT. Remember that every
    successful use of Technology restores 3 BT not to exceed the
    character's maximum.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Seamless Synthesis: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character's CyberWare is so
    advanced and developed that it has integrated flawlessly with their
    biological tissue. No pieces of CyberWare possessed by this
    character are noticeable to others. Note that there may be
    specialized technology used to detect CyberWare, but to casual
    outside observers, this character appears as a normal member of
    their respective species without cybered
    augmentation.]{.c6}[ Note:]{.c6 .c7}[ This perk]{.c6}[ may not ]{.c6
    .c7}[be chosen if the cybered character has the "Ugly Enhancements"
    detriment below.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Supplemental Ware]{.c6 .c7}[: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character's CyberWare
    has been optimized to perform additional functions. When a cybered
    character chooses this perk, they gain the passive mode of one piece
    of CyberWare that they do ]{.c6}[not]{.c6 .c7}[ possess. For
    example, if a cybered character does not have CyberArmor, they could
    then gain the passive benefit of that piece (additional 1d3 LI/1d2
    HI/1d3 EN damage reduction). They do not, however, gain the benefit
    of the active mode. The passive ability granted by this perk does
    not count against a cybered character's maximum number of pieces of
    CyberWare.]{.c6}
-   [Unfettered: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may remove their cybernetic
    detriment they chose.]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Cybernetic Detriments]{.c6 .c7}

[Any character who has a CYB score of at least 1 must choose one of the
following detriments, or should work with the GM to create their own:
]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Cybered Stunning: ]{.c6 .c7}[After the activation of CyberWare is
    complete, whether by time expiration or by ending the activation
    early, the character suffers DA on all checks for the next d3
    minutes. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Energy Weakness: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Characters with
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ take an additional 2 damage from sources
    that deal EN damage of any type. This extra damage cannot be
    blocke]{.c0}[d or absorbed by any type of armor.]{.c6}
-   [Fragile Equipment: ]{.c6 .c7}[If the character receives damage that
    would require them to roll for an early knockout, an Endurance check
    must also be made to see if any CyberWare was damaged. If the
    character fails that Endurance check, one piece of CyberWare
    (random, or GM chooses) is damaged by the attack and cannot be used,
    either in passive or active mode, until necessary repairs are made.
    On any level of success the character is otherwise unaffected. Note
    that this Endurance check to avoid damaging CyberWare is different
    from the Endurance check required in order to remain conscious from
    incurring BODY damage. The player can choose which Endurance check
    to make first.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Neural Fatigue: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Upon every
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ activation, regardless of how many
    ]{.c0}[B]{.c6}[T are spent, the character suffers 1d3 (ME) stun
    damage.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Tracked: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ a character
    has includes GPS locators accurate to 3 meters. Therefore, the
    cybered character is being tracked by a criminal, corporate,
    governmental, or other large and powerful organization. The GM and
    the player should collaboratively create this story for the cybered
    character, since this is designed to be a detr]{.c0}[iment rather
    than just an annoyance]{.c6}[.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Ugly Enhancements: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The cybered character has
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ that is so obvious and apparent it cannot be
    concealed or ignored. Furthermore, because the
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ detracts from the character's biological
    grace and beauty, the cybered character always suffers disadvantage
    on Bureaucracy, Charm]{.c0}[, ]{.c6}[Deception, and Streetwise
    checks where appearance can play a factor. ]{.c0}[This penalty can
    be negated if the cybered character also has advantage on the chosen
    check, as normal.]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[CYBERWARE DESCRIPTIONS]{.c6 .c7 .c13}

[Cyber]{.c6 .c7}[Armor]{.c1}

-   [Description =]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ ]{.c0}[CyberA]{.c6}[rmor consists of
    minute reinforced plates beneath the cybered character's skin. This
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ is not immediately noticeable at first
    glance, nor from a distance, but upon close inspection (being within
    6 meters of a cybered character for at least 1 minute) it is
    ]{.c0}[discernible]{.c6}[ to any observers. Of course, clothing can
    easily ]{.c0}[cover this.]{.c6}
-   [Passive Mode =]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[ Armor soaks
    1]{.c0}[d3]{.c6}[ LI/1]{.c0}[d2]{.c6}[ HI/1]{.c0}[d3]{.c6}[ EN
    damage. This soak is ]{.c0}[in addition]{.c6 .c7}[ to any other
    armor the character may be wearing (such as Gear from the Endurance
    skill, or from ]{.c0}[the natural armor granted to the
    Tesa]{.c6}[).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The character is able to electrify
    their skin and deliver an electric charge to a target upon
    skin-to-skin touch or a successful Melee check (for ]{.c0}[targets
    that are resistant to the character's touch)]{.c6}[. For each
    battery spent, the cybered character adds 1 die to their Melee
    check. Furthermore, for each battery spent, the Melee attack adds 1
    (EN) body damage or 2 (EN) stun damage to the character's normal
    Melee damage, regardless of the success or failure of the check.
    This electric energy also has the ability to temporarily
    short-circuit electrical and computer equipment]{.c0}[ upon
    touch.]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Robo]{.c6 .c7}[Arms]{.c6 .c7 .c13}

-   [A cybered character may acquire up to two ]{.c0}[RoboArms]{.c0}[.
    If a player has two ]{.c0}[Robo]{.c6}[Arms]{.c0}[, each counts
    towards their maximum limit of pieces of ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[;
    however, the passive effect listed is tripled rather than
    double]{.c0}[d]{.c6}[.]{.c0}
-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[A ]{.c0}[Robo]{.c6}[Arm is an
    artificial collection of metallic bones and joints, connected
    through a synthetic fibrous muscular system. They first originated
    as prosthetics to assist individuals who lost their biological arms
    due to accidents or violence, but later became so popular that many
    have voluntarily chosen to replace their biological arms with the
    ]{.c0}[CyberWare]{.c6}[ version. Arms are not noticeable, provided
    that the character is wearing clothing (sleeves and gloves) which
    obscures them. Otherwise, they are immediately noticeable to anyone
    within 30 meters.]{.c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[In passive mode, RoboArms enable the
    character to increase their encumbrance, lift, climbing
    speed]{.c0}[, ]{.c6}[swimming speed, and throwing
    dis]{.c0}[tance]{.c6}[. The bolded text below shows the benefit of
    having ]{.c0}[RoboArms]{.c0}[ compared to a character without them.
    ]{.c0}[Remember, that a character who has two ]{.c6
    .c7}[RoboArms]{.c6 .c7}[ triples the bonus listed]{.c6 .c7}[. These
    bonuses also stack with ]{.c0}[Robo]{.c6}[Legs ]{.c0}[(see
    below)]{.c6}[.]{.c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Encumbrance: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[FORTx6 kg without penalty ]{.c0}[(add
    +12 kg)]{.c6 .c7 .c13}
-   [Climbing: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[(FORT+AGI)/2 meters/phase ]{.c0}[(add +3
    meters/phase)]{.c6 .c7 .c13}
-   [Swimming: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[FORT+AGI meters/phase ]{.c0}[(add +3
    meters/phase)]{.c6 .c7 .c13}
-   [Lift: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[FORTx24]{.c0}[ ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[kg max
    ]{.c0}[(add +48 kg)]{.c1}
-   [Throwing: ]{.c6 .c7}[FORTx6 meters max distance ]{.c6}[(add +12
    meters)]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[For every battery point spent, the
    cybered character adds 1 die to their Melee check, and to their
    Athletics check when using arm strength]{.c0}[.]{.c6}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Cyber]{.c6 .c7}[Cloak]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[A CyberCloak consists of numerous
    nano-cameras in the character which record and project surrounding
    environmental images in order to partially conceal the character.
    While the technology is complicated by movement, the CyberClloak
    does provide some concealment for cybered characters.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, the cybered character is
    constantly the beneficiary of a slight "shimmer" which surrounds
    them. For no cost of BT, a cybered character with a CyberCloak may
    use it to hide. While motionless, the character is more difficult to
    see by regular or standard camera vision (though other types of
    sensors may still detect the character). As such, any Stealth rolls
    are made with AD while hiding in this way. Any motion on the part of
    the character disrupts the cloaking ability and the character then
    rolls Stealth normally. The character may, as desired, not be hidden
    in passive mode. A cybered character with CyberCloak also rolls AD
    on physical defense checks against ranged attacks.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active mode, the CyberCloak provides
    much more of an advantage. For every BT spent, the cybered character
    rolls one extra die on all Stealth checks and all physical defense
    checks versus ranged attacks. ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[NanoC]{.c6 .c7}[omputer]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The NanoComputer, is a small but
    powerful microprocessor implanted into the cybered character's
    brain. External ports for data entry exist around the ears and neck,
    but these are easily concealed by hair and other fashion implements.
    The NanoComputer can access and hack into wireless systems, but is
    made easier with thin cables which are included in the
    ]{.c6}[NanoComputer's]{.c6}[ base gear. Android characters begin
    with a free NanoComputer.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, the NanoComputer is one
    of the most powerful items of cyber gear. With it, the cybered
    character has virtually unlimited digital storage space and research
    capabilities. Any and everything that can be done with a Personal
    Computer (see Gear descriptions) can also be done with an implanted
    NanoComputer. The NanoComputer, however, runs at speed of thought,
    and so in cases where a check is necessary, the cybered character
    rolls their Computers skill  check with AD. Finally, the
    NanoComputer allows the character to fluently know 3 extra
    languages.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active mode, the cybered character
    rolls one extra die on Computers and Deduce checks for every BT
    spent.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[ERSlot]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[The Emergency Response Slot, or ERSlot for
    short, is a collection of chemicals and medications implanted into
    the cybered character's body which provide stimulation and healing
    in extreme circumstances. The ERSlot is not noticeable to outside
    observers, as it is subdermal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, the ERSlot provides
    extra durability to the cybered character. A character with an
    ERSlot has 3 extra BODY durability and 6 extra STUN durability. This
    is due to the effects of nanites and biotic chemicals which
    synthesize to make tissues stronger.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[An ERSlot has two uses in active mode,
    both of which slightly alter the standards rules for CyberWare. In
    the first instance, a character may spend BP to restore BODY and/or
    STUN durability. For every BP spent, the cybered character may
    recover 1d3 BODY or 1d6 STUN durability. The cybered character must
    choose which durability to restore ]{.c6}[before]{.c6 .c7}[ rolling
    dice, and each die must be rolled separately (i.e. a character who
    spends 3 BP to restore BODY points would roll 3d6 and would
    calculate their healing accordingly. Spending BP in this fashion
    bends the 10-minute rule by]{.c6}[ not]{.c6 .c7}[ being recoverable:
    the battery is gone immediately to provide the instant healing. The
    second active use of the ERSlot is one in which the cybered
    character is knocked unconscious (see "Knockouts" for more
    information). If a cybered character with an ERSlot is knocked out
    with 1 or more BP left to spend, that character may choose to spend
    BP in order to revive themselves. Instead of remaining unconscious
    for 6 combat rounds, the cybered character is only unconscious for 1
    round, after which they awaken with STUN durability equal to their
    (FORT+PERS)xBP spent. So, if a character with a FORT of 3 and a PERS
    of 2 spent 2 batteries on recovering in this fashion, they would
    recover from being knocked out with 10 STUN. If that same character
    had chosen to spend only 1 BP, they would revive with 5 STUN
    instead. As before, spending BP in this way is ]{.c6}[not
    recoverable]{.c6 .c7}[ via the 10-minute rule.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[FastChip]{.c1}

-   [The FastChip is a small microprocessor implanted into a cybered
    character's brain which provides extra stimulation to the medulla,
    amygdala, and hypothalamus: parts of the brain responsible for the
    "fight-or-flight" response. As such, the FastChip permits the
    cybered character to act and react quicker than non-cybered
    characters in many situations. The FastChip is not noticeable to
    outside viewers.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[The FastChip allows the cybered character
    to roll their INIT checks with AD. In cases where the character
    would be surprised (and would otherwise roll INIT with disadvantage)
    the FactChip enables them to roll the check normally. ]{.c6}[Note
    that in passive mode, the FastChip offers nothing to a Tesa
    character.]{.c1}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[The FastChip has a different active mode
    than most CyberWare. Instead of adding dice to a skill check,
    spending BP to activate the FastChip instead adds to the number of
    actions the character can perform in a combat round (up to the
    maximum of 4). After rolling INIT in a combat round, the cybered
    character can then choose to spend BP to gain extra actions with the
    FastChip. Spending BP in this way is completely optional, so a round
    in which a character rolls a Failure on their INIT check would not
    need to waste a BP on extra actions. Cybered characters can spend
    between 1-3 BP adding extra actions in this way, however, the effect
    of spending the BP is immediate; there is no 10-minute duration on
    the extra actions, and cybered characters]{.c6}[ cannot ]{.c6
    .c7}[roll Technology to attempt to recover BP spent in this way
    during a scene.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Hidden]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Compartment]{.c6 .c7}

-   [A cybered character may acquire up to two
    Hidden]{.c0}[Compartment]{.c6}[s. Each HiddenCo]{.c0}[mpartment
    counts towards a character's maximum pieces of CyberWare, but each
    HiddenCompartment can be configured differently (see below). ]{.c6}
-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[A HiddenCompartment is a small hollow
    cubic space inside the character which can contain many things:
    electronic devices, documents, and even small weapons. When a
    character acquires a HiddenCompartment, they should choose where the
    compartment is (for example, in the thigh or abdomen) and if it is
    intended for storage or for weaponry. A weapons compartment also
    should specify whether it is a ranged weapon that is concealed, or a
    melee weapon; HiddenCompartments are, as a rule, specifically-made
    for their user, and should be designed as such. A HiddenCompartment
    designed for storage can later be redesigned for weaponry, or vice
    versa, for the cost of 1 XP. HiddenCompartments are built directly
    into the cybered character's body, and are fully compatible with
    other CyberWare such as CyberArmor, CyberSkin, RoboArms, and
    RoboLegs.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, the HiddenCompartment is
    completely unnoticeable by others. This means that a storage
    compartment can conceal devices, documents, computer files, etc.
    that the character wants to remain hidden. No check is necessary to
    ensure the secrecy provided by the hidden compartment. Items can be
    taken in and out of the HiddenCompartment by the cybered character
    as an action. A HiddenCompartment designed to hold weapons can
    contain either a small built-in melee weapon or a small built-in
    ranged weapon and has no other purpose in passive mode, but its
    secrecy remains intact as normal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[The active mode for the HiddenCompartment
    applies to weapons only and has no effect for storage. A character
    with a HiddenCompartment for weapons may initiate combat with a
    surprise attack from the melee or ranged weapon in their
    HiddenCompartment. A cybered character with two HiddenCompartments
    designed for weapons can choose to gain two surprise attacks, one
    for each weapon. If a combat has already begun, the cybered
    character may choose to take a surprise round to attack with their
    weapon(s) before the next Amazing round in combat. For every BT
    spent, the cybered character rolls one extra die on their attack
    (Melee or Ranged), depending on what type of weapon they chose to
    occupy their compartment. The weapon's attack is the same as a
    normal unmodified Melee or Ranged weapon (see Gear description).
    After the surprise round, the cybered character can continue to use
    their weapon as a normal weapon for the duration of combat. Note
    that the character must spend at least one BT in order to be able to
    utilize their hidden weapon.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Robo]{.c6 .c7}[Legs]{.c1}

-   [A cybered character may acquire up to two RoboLegs. ]{.c0}[If a
    player has two RoboLegs, each counts towards their maximum limit of
    pieces of CyberWare; however, the passive effect listed is tripled
    rather than doubled.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[A RoboLeg is an artificial collection of
    metallic bones and joints, connected through a synthetic fibrous
    muscular system. They first originated as prosthetics to assist
    individuals who lost their biological legs due to accidents or
    violence, but later became so popular that many have voluntarily
    chosen to replace their biological legs with the CyberWare version.
    RoboLegs are not noticeable, provided that the character is wearing
    clothing (pants and footwear) which obscures them. Otherwise, they
    are immediately noticeable to anyone within 30 meters.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, RoboLegs enable the
    character to increase their jumping distances, as well as their
    walking, running, and swimming speeds. The bolded text below shows
    the benefit of having RoboLegs compared to a character without them.
    ]{.c6}[Remember, that a character who has two RoboLegs triples the
    bonus listed.]{.c6 .c7}[ These bonuses also stack with cyber Arms
    (see above).]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Standing Jump: ]{.c6 .c7}[(FORT+AGI)/4 meters max distance
    ]{.c6}[(+2 meters)]{.c1}
-   [Running Jump: ]{.c6 .c7}[(FORT+AGI)/2 meters max distance
    ]{.c6}[(+3 meters) ]{.c6 .c7}[(need at least 2 meters running
    start)]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Vertical jump: ]{.c6 .c7}[(FORT+AGI)/6 meters max height ]{.c6}[(+1
    meter)]{.c1}
-   [Walking: ]{.c6 .c7}[(FORT+AGI)/2 meters/phase ]{.c6}[(add +6
    meters/phase)]{.c1}
-   [Running: ]{.c6 .c7}[Walk x2 meters/phase ]{.c6}[(no change, but
    calculate using the modified Walking stats)]{.c1}
-   [Swimming: ]{.c6 .c7}[(FORT+AGI)/2 meters/phase ]{.c6}[(add +3
    meters/phase)]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active Mode, RoboLegs adds 1 die to
    checks made with Acrobatics, Athletics, and Stealth, but only in
    cases where a character's legs would be involved (such as in
    sneaking, jumping, or running).]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Cyber]{.c6 .c7}[Lungs]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[CyberLungs are somewhat inaptly named
    because they do not in fact replace a character's biological lungs,
    but they regulate, filter, and enhance natural respiration. Nanites
    embedded in a character's lungs act as artificial brachii, and
    filters in the trachea are able to remove smoke, toxins, and other
    impurities before being inhaled.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, CyberLungs immunize the
    cybered character from harmful inhalants. The filtering system in
    place automatically detects both odorous and non-odorous gasses, and
    makes the air breathable. CyberLungs also enable a cybered character
    to hold their breath for an additional one minute on top of the time
    listed in Standard Physical Abilities.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active mode, CyberLungs provide extra
    dice to checks made with Acrobatics, Athletics, and Endurance. The
    cybered character gains 1 extra die for each BP spent.]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[CyberO]{.c6 .c7}[ptics]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[CyberOptics replaces a character's
    biological eyes with photoreceptive machinery of the highest
    quality. The devices are designed to appear like normal eyes, with
    varieties for all species. Nonetheless, a keen observer within 10
    meters of the cybered character can tell CyberOptics from biological
    ones in 1 minute. Some cybered characters openly flaunt their ]{.c2
    .c0}

[CyberOptics by selecting iris hues of radical colors; others choose to
hide their enhancements behind regular shades, which makes detection of
CyberOptics impossible by ordinary detection methods. Note that
CyberOptics can still be detected through the use of other specialized
equipment.]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, CyberOptics allows a
    cybered character to detect wavelengths along the electromagnetic
    spectrum that are normally not visible. Characters can detect
    ultraviolet and infrared rays as well. Furthermore, CyberOptics
    provides magnification and zooming capabilities which can make
    things appear up to 20x their normal size. Coupled with the
    processing power of a NanComputer, CyberOptics are able to take and
    store photographs and videos (but the NanoComputer must be acquired
    separately). Additionally, CyberOptics expands the distance at which
    the cybered character can make an attack using the Ranged skill by
    60 meters (for a total range of 180m versus 120m for non-cybered
    characters).]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active mode, CyberOptics provide
    bonuses to Ranged and Search, respectively. For every BT spent, the
    cybered character adds 1 die to checks when making an attack with
    Ranged, or when using Search to find hidden evidence or people.
    ]{.c2 .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Pheromone]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[Package]{.c6 .c7}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[The PheromorePackage implants subtle
    vesicles onto a character's skin which emit minute chemicals that
    alter others' perceptions. The Pheromone Package is always active,
    and are subtle enough where they are not detected except by the
    successful use of a Science or Search skill check. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[The PheromonePackage alters the
    character's chemical makeup to suit; as such, the cybered character
    receives AD on skill checks with Bureaucracy, Charm, Deception, and
    Streetwise in cases where their gender, sexual orientation, or
    appearance may make a difference. The GM and players should
    collaboratively decide when this is opportune and when it
    isn't.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[For every BP spent, the cybered character
    gains one extra die on skill checks for Charm and Deception.]{.c2
    .c0}

[]{.c2 .c0}

[Cyber]{.c6 .c7}[Skin]{.c1}

-   [Description = ]{.c6 .c7}[CyberSkin (or scales or fur, in cases of
    Tesa and Weren respectively) consists of nanites embedded into the
    dermal and keratin tissue of the character. On its surface,
    CyberSkin is indistinguishable from non-cybered tissue, unless the
    character chooses otherwise (to display ceremonial tattoos, for
    instance). ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Passive Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In passive mode, CyberSkin grants the
    character extra durability against physical attacks. The CyberSkin
    is less effective than standard Armor, however, and only absorbs 1
    LI/1 HI/1 EN damage. It has no soaking ability versus ME damage.
    This soaking ability stacks with other forms of durability,
    however.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Active Mode = ]{.c6 .c7}[In active mode, CyberSkin allows the
    character to alter their physical appearance to suit new situations,
    and to help them "fit in." This can take many different forms:
    altering skin color (or fur and scale color), eye color, and hair
    color. It is important to note that CyberSkin does not alter
    physical structural features; for instance, activating CyberSkin
    would not allow a character to adjust the size of their nose. For
    every BT spent, the cybered character adds one extra die to checks
    made with Bureaucracy, Charm, Deception, Stealth, and Streetwise, as
    long as the outward modifications would benefit the character.
    ]{.c6}

[]{.c1}