Gear And Money
==============
In a modern-to-far future game, technology and gear are parts of everyday life.
However, the Teleios game is designed as a storytelling game, and as such does
not contain detailed rules for encumbrance, etc. All characters are assumed to
have personal effects such as clothing, keys, a communication device, a
wallet/bankchip, etc. Above and beyond those base essentials, it is assumed that
characters have a residence of some type, and some means of employment. In other
words, it is encouraged for GMs to not spend any time tracking how characters
pay for each meal (assume that they have food to eat unless the story dictates
otherwise), and spend more time focusing on the plot and story of the adventure.
Any Gear that characters acquire and/or improve costs XP, so GMs should
generally allow players to deck their characters out with whatever items they
choose (they've paid for it, after all). It should also be rare for a player to
NOT have access to an item of Gear for which they have paid XP; generally only a
good story reason should restrict a character's access to their items (theft of
a unique weapon, damage to a character's vehicle in a close firefight, etc.). Of
course, such story reasons can be launch points for great adventures (how to
recover said weapon, or how to repair the damaged vehicle).

Gear Descriptions
------------------

### Armor [ *Endurance* ] 
A character trained in Endurance has body armor that protects against physical
damage. Armor soaks 1d6 LI/1d3 HI/1d6 EN damage. It has no soaking ability
versus ME damage. The body armor is akin to a bulletproof vest in its general
mass and bulkiness. It can be concealed at range by clothing, but any observers
within 6 meters of the character can identify the armor within 1 minute. A
character wearing armor has DA to Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, and Thievery
checks. Tesa characters have a natural "Armor" due to their scales which does
not impose penalties on the aforementioned skill checks.

### E-Suit [ *Endurance*, *Outdoors* ] 
The E-Suit (short for "environment suit") better enables the character to
withstand environmental extremes (heat, cold, low oxygen, etc.). The E-Suit is
sort of a combination between a hazmat suit, a scuba suit, and a lightweight
spacesuit. E-Suits are not normal fashion, so it's obvious that a character is
wearing one (though the appearance could be improved by spending further XP).
The first time the GM calls for an Endurance check to resist the environment, a
character with an E-Suit rolls their check with advantage. Any level of success
allows the character to continue rolling with advantage thereafter. Any failure
results mean that the suit is incapable of handling the extremes and ceases to
function until the character takes a rest, or until the GM awards a milestone.
The E-Suit is also equipped with a respirator that can be used in space or
underwater, or to mitigate the effects of smoke or toxins, for 10 minutes per
milestone. 

### Explosives Kit [ *Tactics* ]
The explosives kit comes in two separate forms: as a satchel charge or as three
small grenades. The character who acquires an explosives kit must specify which
kit they choose. Each kit may be "recharged," so to speak, once per milestone.
At each milestone a character may "swap" a satchel charge for three grenades, or
vice versa. The satchel charge may be used as part of a Tactics check to destroy
a large vehicle or small building. Each grenade may be used as a thrown weapon
(see the Ranged skill) which deals 2d6 (HI) body damage for a fragmentation
grenade or 3d6 (LI) stun damage for a concussion grenade. The player must choose
which damage to deal before making the Ranged check. Other types of grenades may
be available by spending XP to improve the gear. The satchel charge is the
general size and mass of a briefcase and can be easily disguised as such from
the outside. The three grenades are the size and mass of baseballs and can be
easily concealed by clothing.

### Fashion Suit [ *Bureaucracy*, *Charm*, *Deception*, *Streetwise* ]
The fashion suit is an assemblage of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. that
emit an aura of confidence and belonging. The suit can also superficially change
colors, emit pleasing (or unpleasing odors), and can enable a character to "fit
in" in certain locales. The Fashion Suit grants advantage on Bureaucracy, Charm,
Deception, and Streetwise checks in situations where personal dress and physical
appearance may play a role. The player must declare their intent to modify their
Fashion Suit before such an event. 

### Forensics Kit [ *Science*, *Search* ]
The forensics kit includes inks, dyes, powders, and other tools useful to
investigators of all types, including police, detectives, and other operatives.
The forensics kit is roughly the size and shape of a book, and grants a
character AD on Search checks when used to find minute details in a scene, and
can also provide much more detailed information than would otherwise be possible
(for example, that the crime was committed by a male with black hair, rather
than simply a crime was committed by a person standing 1.8 meters tall). Using
the forensics kit requires 30 minutes, and so cannot be used in a combat scene. 

### Lockpick Set [ *Thievery* ]
The lockpick set consists of physical and electronic devices which facilitate
lockpicking and illicit entry. The lockpick set itself is roughly the size and
shape of a small book. Use of the lockpick set grants AD to lockpicking physical
locks, and negates the DA imposed on electronic locks. 

### Medical Kit [ *Medicine* ]
A character trained in Medicine has a small medical kit ("medkit" for short)
that can be used to restore damage in themselves or in others in and out of
combat scenarios. The medkit is roughly the size and shape of a book, and
contains an assortment of pharmaceuticals, bandages, surgical tools, etc. There
are enough supplies in each medkit to be used up to three times per milestone,
and upon reaching a milestone, the medkit is "recharged." The medkit can be used
in a combat scene with a Medicine check to restore up to 2d6 stun damage to an
individual. Doing so in combat requires 2 actions (for a minimum of 2 combat
phases). During a rest, the medkit can be used to restore up to 1d6 body damage.
Note that this is in addition to any durability gained by characters through the
Endurance skill. If a character tries to use a medkit on themselves, they suffer
DA to the Medicine check. 

### Melee Weapon [ *Melee* ]
A character trained in Melee has a melee weapon that can be used as an action in
combat. The melee weapon deals 1d6+FORT (LI) body damage, or 2d6+FORT (LI) stun
damage. The character chooses which damage type to deal when using the weapon
and before making the Melee check. The exact weapon the character uses can vary
from player to player, but melee weapons are able to be used one-handed. They
are capable of striking an enemy that the character is adjacent to (within 1
meter). The melee weapon is obvious to onlookers and cannot be successfully
hidden. Melee weapons do not produce noise at great distances.

### Personal Computer [ *Computers* ] 
A character trained in Computers has a small personal computer that has
capabilities not found in other normal devices. Most notably, a personal
computer can be used to hack into other computer or electronic systems
wirelessly to a range of 30m. A character's device can vary to suit the player,
but they are generally small, thin, hand-held machines. A wireless hack imposes
DA to the Computers check, but if the character physically connects their device
to a computer or electronic lock being hacked via wires, the roll is done as
normal. 

### Personal Vehicle [ *Vehicles* ]
The character is in possession of a small, one-person capacity personal vehicle.
This vehicle is generally designed for land usage, but can be modified to travel
in the air, the water, or in space for extra XP. The personal vehicle provides
very little in the way of physical protection (think of a motorcycle), but can
enable the character to travel independently at need.

### Psionic Detector [ *Occult*, *Science* ]
The psionic detector is a small device that looks similar to a normal personal
computer or communication device. If any psionic power is used (or is in use)
within 30 meters, the detector will alert and will pinpoint the general
direction of the usage. Note that this includes any active psionic powers from
the character themselves, or any allies. If the character is actively monitoring
the detector, any usage of a psionic power will pinpoint the individual who used
the power. The carrying character may voluntarily choose to "switch off" the
detector and remain ignorant to psionic activity in their surroundings. A
character may choose to combine their Psionic Detector into one device along
with their personal communicator or other devices (provided that they have paid
1 XP each to get each Gear item). 

### Psionic Shield [ *Occult* ]
The psionic shield is a small device that looks similar to a normal personal
computer or communication device. It may be used in one of two ways; first, if
worn or carried by a character, it either imposes DA on any psionic power used
within 30 meters (for characters) or grants the carrying character AD on defense
checks to resist psionic attacks (for NPCs). The carrying character may
voluntarily choose to "switch off" the shield and ignore these penalties and
advantages. Alternatively, the psionic shield may be "clamped" onto an
individual (restraints and modifications may be made to fit around an
individual's neck). In such a case the individual to whom it is attached may not
use psionic powers while the device is active. A character may choose to combine
their Psionic Shield into one device along with their personal communicator or
other devices (provided that they have paid 1 XP each to get each Gear item).

### Ranged Weapon [ *Ranged* ]
A character trained in Ranged has a ranged weapon that can be used as an action
in combat. The ranged weapon deals 2d6 (HI) body damage on a successful check
result. Ranged weapons may target anything within 120m of the character
(provided there are no obstructions), and require two hands to use. The ranged
weapon is obvious to onlookers and cannot be hidden. Ranged weapons create noise
when used, and listeners within 360m of the character are able to hear it
clearly.

### Repair Kit [ *Technology* ]
The repair kit includes tools and electronics which are useful in fixing damaged
technological or electronic devices. The kit itself is about the size and shape
of a book. Using the repair kit outside of combat reduces the time to fix items
to 1 hour, rather than 1d6 hours. When using the Repair Kit to jury-rig, it
provides AD on the related Technology check. 

### Science Kit [ *Science* ]
A character trained in Science has a small science kit that enables them to
conduct scientific lab work and fieldwork when an actual lab is not present. The
science kit is roughly the size and shape of a briefcase, and contains vials,
test tubes, chemical bases and solvents, etc. Using a science kit grants a
character AD on Science checks when a physical sample is available to study
(mineral, tissue, etc.). The use of a science kit in this way takes 30 minutes,
and so is not available during a combat encounter.

### Sensor Array [ *Science*, *Search*, *Technology* ]
The sensor array is an electronic device that detects a large quantity of
environmental data, such as temperature, humidity, UV radiation, electromagnetic
radiation, infrared, etc. The sensor array itself is a device similar to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. Using the
sensor array outside of a combat scene (which requires 3 minutes) grants the
character a wealth of knowledge about their immediate environment, up to 120
meters away. It can also provide AD on the Search skill when used to detect
larger-scale environmental features in a scene.

### Stealth Unit [ *Stealth* ]
The stealth unit is a small electronic device in similar size and shape to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. The stealth
device includes sound-dampening technology and projects image-blurring which
grants a character with this device AD on Stealth checks. If a character using a
stealth unit remains quiet and motionless, they cannot be detected. Any motion
or noise would trigger another Stealth check, but with AD. The character can
choose to turn this device on and off.

### Survival Kit [ *Outdoors* ]
The survival kit is a small briefcase-sized kit which contains emergency
supplies that are useful in the wilderness. It contains a variety of dried
foodstuffs, water purification tablets, emergency blankets, lamps, heaters, and
navigational tools. A character who makes an Outdoors check while in possession
of a survival kit (depending on situation) will receive AD on the check.

\newpage