Psionics
========

[Psionics (PSI) is an optional attribute that can be raised from 1-6 as
can the basic attributes. Even if a starting character begins with 0
PSI, ranks can be added later by purchasing ranks in the PSI attribute
as normal. A starting character cannot have a PSI score higher than rank
4. PERS is the attribute most important for psionic characters, as it is
used to calculate psychovolts and adds to some powers; however, INT is
also a key attri]{.c0}[bute for many psionic powers. ]{.c6}[The
following rules apply to characters with a PSI score of at leas]{.c0}[t
one]{.c6}[:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [A character's PSI score = the maximum number of psionic powers that
    the character can have ranks in. For example, a character with a PSI
    of 3 can have up to three different powers available to them, but
    cannot gain a fourth power until their PSI score increases to 4. Of
    course, that same character might choose to only have 1 or 2 psionic
    powers available. Note that this means (technically) that a
    character could have a PSI score of at least one, but ]{.c0}[have no
    trained psionic powers to use\--not very optimal. Also n]{.c6}[ote
    that this means that the maximum number of psionic powers available
    to a character is 6, because a character's maximum PSI score is 6
    (although Fraal ]{.c0}[characters can have up to 7 psionic powers
    because of their free use of Telepathy)]{.c6}[. ]{.c0}[Psionic
    characters tend to specialize in certain powers at the expense of
    others. C]{.c6}[hoose wisel]{.c0}[y!]{.c6}
-   [When making a check with a psionic power, the character adds their
    ranks in the power itself along with the character's PSI score (2-12
    dice). This operates the same way ]{.c0}[as normal
    ]{.c6}[skills.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Psionic powers may]{.c0}[ not]{.c6 .c7}[ be used
    untrained]{.c0}[ under any circumstances.]{.c6}
-   [Training perks are ]{.c6}[not]{.c6 .c7}[ available for purchase for
    psionic powers, nor is there gear associated with psionic powers.
    Psionic characters may, however, purchase expertise perks at ranks
    4, 5, and 6 normally.]{.c6}
-   [Psionic powers require psychovolts to use. A character's total
    psychovolts (PV) are equal to their PERS+3. ]{.c0}[C]{.c6}[haracters
    with no PSI sc]{.c0}[ore and no ]{.c6}[psionic powers have no need
    ]{.c0}[to calculate PV.]{.c6}
-   [For every usage (]{.c0}[regardless ]{.c6}[of success degree or
    failure) of a psionic power, a character subtracts 1 psychovolt (PV)
    from their total. If 0 PV remain, the character may still attempt to
    use a power, but suffers DA on the check. In such a case, the
    psionic character also incurs 2 (ME) stun damage for every usage
    (whether success or failure) of a psionic power. This stun damage
    cannot be absorb]{.c0}[ed by any means.]{.c6}
-   [All PV are restored after the GM gives the character a
    ]{.c0}[milestone]{.c6}[. Additionally, a psionic character may use
    the Resolve skill ]{.c0}[once ]{.c6}[during a rest to restore lost
    PV. Success restores 3 PV (not to exceed the character's maximum).
    See the Resolve skill for more information.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [A psionic power that has the ]{.c0}["extend"]{.c6 .c7
    .c13}[ keyword may have its effects extended beyond the normal
    duration of the power. Upon the expiry of the power's normal
    duration, a psionic character may spend 1 additional PV to continue
    the use of that power uninterrupted for a length of time equal to
    the power's normal duration. No additional check needs to be made
    when extending a power. For example, if a character with an INT of 2
    has been using Telepathy to speak with another (for up to 5 minutes)
    and wants to continue doing so beyond those 5 minutes, they would
    simply declare that intent and spend an additional PV to continue
    the power's use for up to another 5 minutes. In cases where a
    psionic character wishes to extend a power but has no psychovolts
    remaining, they may choose to extend the power for half of the
    normal duration, ]{.c0}[and]{.c6}[ must incur 2 (ME) stun damage.
    ]{.c0}[Regardless of situation, psionic p]{.c6}[owers may only be
    extended once before the strain is too much and]{.c0}[ the psionic
    character needs to end the usage of that power]{.c6}[.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Multiple uses of psionic powers with the "extend" keyword may be in
    effect at any one time. For example, a psionic character may be
    utilizing both Cloak and Metabolism (after having paid the cost in
    psychovolts), or may be using Metabolism twice in order to increase
    both FORT and AGI separately. In such ]{.c0}[cases, the psionic
    character may choose to pay additional PV to keep the powers in
    effect after their normal duration.]{.c6}
-   [Psionic characters ]{.c6}[must]{.c6 .c7}[ choose a psionic
    detriment, listed below. A detriment may be later removed through
    the acquisition of an Expertise Perk, otherwise it remains.]{.c2
    .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks (ranks 4, 5, ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[and 6)]{.c6
    .c7}[:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Boost: ]{.c6 .c7}[When a character chooses this Perk, they pick
    between PERS and INT, which determines its effect listed below. (A
    character may choose this Perk a second time, selecting the other
    attribute.) Any reference to PERS or INT as a part of a psionic
    power's targeting, duration, or effects is doubled. So a character
    with a PERS score of 2 would add 4 to damage from Bolt, rather than
    2, and a character with an INT of 3 would have a base duration of 6
    hours, rather than 3, with Persuasion.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Conservationist: ]{.c6 .c7}[Three times per milestone, when the
    psionic character fails a check with a psionic power, they do not
    expend PV. Obviously the pionic character would wait until after the
    check failed before opting for this.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Extra Power: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may learn up to seven
    psionic powers (eight for Fraal characters). Note that this is an
    extra power, not an increase to the character's PSI score.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Fast Recovery: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may use the Resolve skill
    twice (instead of once) during rests to regain spent PV. Remember
    that every successful use of Resolve restores 3 PV not to exceed the
    character's maximum.]{.c6}
-   [Psi-Resistance: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has innate ability which
    functions similarly to the Psionic Shield in the Gear description
    (see the Occult skill for more information). They receive AD on any
    defense checks when targeted by a psionic power, regardless of
    range.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Unfettered: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character may remove their psionic
    detriment they chose. ]{.c2 .c0}

Psionic Detriments
------------------

[Any character who has a PSI score of at least 1 must choose one of the
following detriments, or may work with the G]{.c0}[M]{.c6}[ to create
their own psionic detriment:]{.c2 .c0}

-   [Audible:]{.c6 .c7}[ The character must speak aloud an incantation
    or other phrase in order for psionic powers to be used. The
    character's voice is audible up to 12m away. Whispering or muttering
    imposes DA on a check, but is only audible up to 3m away.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Low Psychovoltage: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[PV are equal to their PERS
    score, not PERS+3 as normal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Slow Recovery: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character regains psychovolts slowly.
    The character only regains PV by benefit of a milestone, and does
    not regain PV by the use of the Resolve skill during a rest.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Talisman:]{.c6 .c7}[ The character requires an object weighing
    between 1-2 kg in order to use psionic powers. This talisman cannot
    be a simple mundane item, like a tennis shoe or an electronic
    device; it must be unique and obviously special to observers, though
    its role as a talisman is not readily evident. Examples might
    include a heavy jewel on the end of a necklace or a crystal ball.
    The talisman must be carried or worn by the character in order to
    use psionic powers normally. Additionally, the talisman cannot serve
    any other purpose (such as acting as a melee weapon or a personal
    computer). A character with this detriment who attempts to use a
    power without their talisman suffers DA. If a character's talisman
    is lost or otherwise permanently destroyed, the psionic character
    may make another via the Occult skill. Generally, the talisman
    should not be lost unless it advances the story of the game.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Uncontrollable Power: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[When the character fails a
    defense check (whether physical or mental), or when the character
    fails an Endurance or a Resolve check, one of their psionic powers
    activates uncontrollably for its normal duration. ]{.c0}[If the
    psionic character has more than one psionic power, the power that
    activates is determined randomly (or GM chooses for
    effect).]{.c6}[ The psionic character still suffers the psychovolt
    loss as normal for such an event.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Unreliable Power: ]{.c6 .c7 .c13}[The character must successfully
    make a Resolve check before using a psionic power. A su]{.c0}[ccess
    means they can use the power as normal, while a failure means
    ]{.c6}[they suffer disadvantage on the psionic power check.]{.c0}



Psionic Power Descriptions
--------------------------

Augury

-   [Range: 30 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: 1 individual]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration:]{.c0}[ ]{.c6}[INT minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power enables a psionic character to read the thoughts,
    memories, emotions, and physical state of others]{.c0}[, ]{.c6}[AKA
    ]{.c0}["]{.c6}[mindreading]{.c0}[" (though psionic characters would
    describe a sentient mind as something that cannot be "read"]{.c6}[).
    A successful use of this power will reveal to the character secrets,
    memories, etc. from one target. While this power is active, the
    psionic character remains conscious, but is in a trancelike state.
    The psionic character cannot take other actions while Augury is in
    use, and the character rolls DA on any defense checks (whether
    physical or mental) while in the trance. Once per ]{.c0}[combat
    round]{.c6}[ (20 seconds) for the duration, the character may ask
    the GM a specific question about the target and the GM must answer
    truthfully. ]{.c0}[Targets of Augury immediately know that their
    mind is being probed; as such some targets may wish to close their
    mind to the psionic character. ]{.c6}[An unwilling target imposes DA
    on the character's initial check]{.c0}[, and]{.c6}[ if the Augury
    check against an unwilling target is successful, the target will
    attempt to mentally expel the user after 1 minute. In such a
    circumstance, a psionic character must succeed on another Augury
    check to maintain the power for each additional minute of the
    power's duration, but would not ]{.c0}[s]{.c6}[pend PV unless the
    original duration of the power has been reached. If the psionic
    character comes into physical contact (skin-to-skin) with their
    target the check is rolled with AD. Augury can only be used on
    intelligent lifeforms; it cannot be used against artificial
    intelligence (AI) constructs or animals. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Deeper Mind: ]{.c6 .c7}[The base duration for Augury is now
    ]{.c6}[INTx2]{.c6 .c7}[ minutes.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [ ]{.c6}[Split Consciousness: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character no
    longer suffers DA on defense checks while Augury is in use. However,
    no other actions can be taken unless the character chooses to end
    Augury early.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Dominance: ]{.c6 .c7}[An unwilling target is wholly and completely
    open to the psionic character. Once the character succeeds on the
    initial Augury check (with DA), they are no longer subject to mental
    expulsion by the target. Note that the duration of Augury does not
    change.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Rapid Search: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can ask one question
    of the target every combat phase (every 5 seconds) rather than every
    combat round. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Ghost in the Machine: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can use
    Augury to manipulate electronic systems, such as computers, security
    devices, drones, etc. By making skin-to-device contact and making
    the Augury check as normal, the psionic character gains control of
    the targeted device for the power's duration. Once per combat round,
    they can program instructions into the targeted device which must
    then be carried out within the next INT hours, even after the
    psionic character is no longer using Augury. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Psychometry: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character can use Augury to "read"
    objects and locations the same way they can use it on individuals.
    To use Augury with an object, the character must make skin-to-skin
    contact with it. Once the check is successful, the psionic character
    may ask the GM one question per round about the object, and the GM
    must answer truthfully. Examples could include, "Has this weapon
    killed anyone?" or "Who used to own this necklace?" To use Augury on
    a location, the character must be physically present. The location
    size is limited to a small building or less (i.e. the character
    could not successfully use Augury in this way in a sports arena or a
    space station). All other rules about Augury apply.]{.c2 .c0}


[Bolt                                ]{.c1}

-   [Range: 120 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: 1 ]{.c0}[target]{.c6}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Duration: Instant]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power causes a glowing bolt of psionic energy to fly from the
    psionic character's hand to a target in range. Because the bolt
    emanates from the user's hand, the psionic character must have full
    use of at least one of their arms and hands in order to use this
    power, or else DA is imposed on the check. The psionic bolt does
    1d6+PERS (EN) body damage or 2d6+PERS (EN) stun damage. The psionic
    character chooses which durability type to affect before
    m]{.c0}[aking the check and ]{.c6}[rolling damage dice. The psionic
    character must have a clear line of sight to the target, and the
    path from the psionic character to the target must be free from
    obstructions that would otherwise impede the bolt. If obstructions
    exist (at the GM's discretion) then DA is imposed on the check and
    the obs]{.c0}[tructions may receive damage or be
    destroyed]{.c6}[.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Distance: ]{.c6 .c7}[The range of Bolt expands to 180 meters.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Nimble Fingers: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character no longer needs
    the use of a hand to use Bolt, and suffers no DA in cases where
    their hands are not available.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Magic Missile: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character unleashes two Bolts
    in the same action. The additional Bolt can be aimed at the same
    target or at a different one within range. The psionic character
    must make the check and roll damage for each bolt separately, but
    only expends one PV for the attack. This perk may be taken up to
    twice; in such a case, the psionic character attacks three times
    with one action.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Psychobomb: ]{.c6 .c7}[Once per milestone, the character can use
    Bolt to create an "explosive device" made of psychic energy. The
    bomb is roughly the size and shape of a basketball, and glows the
    same as a normal bolt of energy, but can be handled by the psionic
    character safely. If anyone else tries to handle the psychobomb, or
    if the psionic character loses consciousness, it detonates. The bomb
    remains in this state for up to PERS+3 minutes, or until the psionic
    character chooses to detonate it. The bomb, when detonated, deals
    4d6 (EN) stun damage or 2d6 (EN) body damage to creatures in its
    vicinity. The character chooses which damage type to deal upon
    detonation.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Invisible Bolt: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character's Bolt does not have a
    glowing color as normal. Instead, only the most observant witnesses
    would see a transparent shimmer in the air as a result of this
    character's attack (not unlike gazing across hot pavement). This
    perk makes the character's Bolt against cameras with normal,
    infrared, or thermal vision, but any devices which detect psionic
    energy would still be triggered by the attack.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Piercing Bolt: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character no longer rolls DA
    when attacking a target that is obscured, obstructed, or otherwise
    covered. Instead, the Bolt makes a straight shot to the target,
    passing through any obstacles (damaging and/or destroying them)
    before making contact. If the Bolt passes through any obstacle, its
    damage is halved (determined after rolling damage dice).  ]{.c2 .c0}



Clairvoyance

-   [Range: 120 kilometers]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: N/A]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: 3+INT minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power enables a character to migrate their consciousness to a
    specific location within range. At this location, the character can
    see and hear as normal, but is otherwise unnoticed by others in that
    location. Meanwhile, the character's body remains in an otherwise
    unconscious state; the character cannot take other actions while
    Clairvoyance is in use, and ]{.c0}[any attacks against the character
    automatically succeed]{.c6}[. When used, the character must name a
    specific location within range; otherwise the character has DA to
    the roll. For example, if the psionic character chooses to use
    Clairvoyance on "311 East Main St., Cairo, IL," the power would work
    normally. If the character chooses to use Clairvoyance on "wherever
    my enemy is right now" DA would be imposed. If the character places
    their consciousness inside ]{.c0}[a moving vehicle within range
    (such as a train or shuttle), the power works normally for the
    duration, unless the vehicle travels beyond the 120km limit.
    ]{.c6}[If the character chooses to move their consciousness to a
    second location within range during the power's duration, another
    psychovolt must be spent but no additional check needs to be made
    unless that second location is non-specific. ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Ambiguity: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character no longer suffers disadvantage
    when using Clairvoyance on a non-specific location within
    range.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Distance: ]{.c6 .c7}[Once per milestone, a psionic character can
    use Clairvoyance to project their consciousness into any specific
    location in a star system. All other rules regarding the use of
    Clairvoyance remain unchanged.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: ]{.c6 .c7}[The duration of Clairvoyance is now (INT+3)x2
    minutes.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Aware State: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character who uses Clairvoyance
    now rolls defense checks with DA when attacked while the power is in
    use. Attackers no longer have an automatic success against the
    character.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Remote Power: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has improved their ability
    to the point where they can use another psionic power using the
    remote location of their consciousness as the locus point. After
    successfully using Clairvoyance to migrate their consciousness, the
    character may then use any of the following powers from that
    location: Augury, Daze, Foresight, Persuasion, and Telepathy. Note
    that since just the character's consciousness is present, DA will be
    imposed to the secondary check. The additional power still requires
    the psionic character to spend PV as well.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Remote Superiority: ]{.c6 .c7}[This perk must be purchased after
    purchasing "Remote Power" above. When the psionic character has
    already migrated their consciousness to an alternate location, they
    may then utilize the secondary psionic powers of Augury, Daze,
    Foresight, Persuasion, or Telepathy without the additional
    disadvantage on the check.]{.c2 .c0}



[Cloak                ]{.c1}

-   [Range: Personal]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: Self]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: PERS minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power causes the character and any items being held or worn by
    the character (within reason) at the time of usage to turn
    invisible. If the character is unmoving and quiet, they
    automatically remain unnoticed by others in their surroundings. If
    the character moves or makes noise while using Cloak]{.c0}[,
    ]{.c6}[the character rolls AD on any Stealth check for the duration.
    ]{.c0}[Additional actions taken while using Cloak may also be
    subject to a Stealth check with AD, depending on whether significant
    motion is produced. Significant sound or smells would require the
    Stealth check rolled as normal. Finally, a Cloaked character may
    make an attack in a Surprise round of combat, but doing so
    immediately ends the Cloak.]{.c6}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expanded Cloak: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can now use Cloak
    to conceal PERS number of other individuals and their belongings at
    close range (any targets must be within 6 meters of the psionic
    character). If the psionic character moves more than 6 meters away
    from another individual cloaked in this manner, they become visible
    again. The psionic character can choose which target(s) apply to
    this benefit and which do not at the time of activation, if
    needed.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Illusory Background: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character may use Cloak to
    create an illusory scene that measures 6x6x6 cubic meters. The
    illusory scene must be within 30 meters of the character. The
    illusion may only affect the senses of sight and sound. If skeptical
    individuals examine the illusion, the psionic character may make an
    additional Cloak check with DA (for no cost of PV) to maintain the
    illusion. If the Cloak check fails, the illusion immediately
    ends.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Mobile Cloak: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character may now move slowly
    (half speed) and make minimal noise while Cloaked without the need
    to make a Stealth check. It is assumed that the character remains
    undetected.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Muffle: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character may use Cloak to dampen sounds
    created within 6 meters of themselves. Casual listeners\--even those
    within the 6 meter radius\--will not notice a change to their
    hearing, and will not react. Those who are actively searching or
    listening would have DA on any applicable checks. This muffling
    ability is in addition to the normal usage of Cloak, and the psionic
    character can choose whether or not to muffle when they use the
    power. There is no additional cost in PV.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: ]{.c6 .c7}[The duration of Cloak is now PERSx2
    minutes.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Far Illusion: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character may now use Cloak
    centered on a point of origin up to 30 meters away. The character
    must be able to see the target location when using Cloak. All other
    rules of Cloak apply.]{.c2 .c0}



Daze

-   [Range: 30 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: 1 creature]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: Instant]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [By using this power, the character psionically inflicts 1d6+INT
    (ME) stun damage onto a target. Because this attack is mental in
    nature it cannot be blocked, nor the damage reduced, by physical
    means (armor, shields, etc.). This power cannot
    ]{.c0}[target]{.c6}[ AI constructs.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Stun: ]{.c6 .c7}[A psionic character with this perk may use Daze to
    "stun" a target; in game terms, that target is still conscious, but
    may not voluntarily move nor act for INT+3 combat phases.]{.c6}
-   [Mental Shield: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character has trained their
    mind to be more protected against attack. This character
    automatically soaks the first 1d3 ME damage from any single source.
    Any other ME damage is taken as normal.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Knockout: ]{.c6 .c7}[Once per milestone, the psionic character may
    use Daze to instantly knock out another individual. This works as an
    "early knockout" (see below). ]{.c2 .c0}



Foresight

-   [Range: Personal]{.c0}
-   [Target: Self]{.c0}
-   [Duration: Instant, extra LP to INT hours]{.c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power grants the psionic character insight into future events.
    Because the future is constantly in flux, the character's insight is
    limited, however. A successful use of this power grants the
    character three extra Luck Points through the duration of the power.
    If the extra LPs are not used by that point, the power is wasted.
    Because of the ambiguity in seeing the pattern of the future, this
    power may only be used once ]{.c0}[in between]{.c6}[ rests,
    regardless of success or failure.]{.c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Deja Vu: ]{.c6 .c7}[This character has already been here and
    already knows things about the current scene. Once in between rests,
    the player can invoke Deja Vu, which allows them to create details
    in the scenario which are useful to the player and their allies. For
    instance, a psionic character with this perk could declare that
    there is a flaw in the hull integrity of the cruiser that is chasing
    the players, thus opening an opportunity for an attack. Or perhaps
    the player invoking Deja Vu announces that there is a hidden doorway
    at the end of the otherwise dead-ended alleyway which permits
    escape. This ability should always grant a benefit to the player,
    and the story change should meet with approval from the GM as well
    as the other players.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Back That Up: ]{.c6 .c7}[A psionic character with this perk can use
    Foresight retroactively. If the psionic character has not used
    Foresight since their last rest, they may use this power as part of
    another action to gain two (rather than three) Luck points. One of
    those Luck points may be then used immediately to affect the current
    situation. For example, if the psionic character fails a physical
    defense roll against an enemy, they may retroactively call for a
    Foresight check. If that check is successful, the character could
    then use one of the gained Luck points to modify their physical
    defense check. The other extra Luck point must be spent within INT
    hours, as normal.]{.c2 .c0}



[Heal                                ]{.c1}

-   [Range: Personal]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: Self]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: Instant]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power uses a character's psionic energy to enact rapid
    cellular regeneration. A successful use of this power heals the
    character by 1d6+PERS body damage, or 2d6+PERS stun damage. The
    psionic character must choose which durability type to be healed at
    the time of usage.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Lay on Hands: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic healer can use this power on
    another living creature (not a machine, etc.). The psionic character
    must touch the intended target in order to work. In such a case, the
    target would restore either 1d3+PERS body damage, or 1d6+PERS stun
    damage. The psionic character must choose which durability type to
    be healed at the time of usage.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Detox: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character can now use Heal to detect and
    remove toxins, poisons, and other harmful chemicals or radioactive
    materials from their environment. Upon using Heal, the character can
    detect any such substances within 6 meters of themselves. The
    character may then choose which, if any, of those substances to be
    eliminated. For example, a psionic character with this perk could
    detect poisons in themselves or others, and could purge it. Or they
    could clean pollution from in a designated area.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Psychodoctor: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can now use Heal to
    cure all diseases in themselves or another (skin-to-skin contact is
    required).]{.c2 .c0}



Kinetic

-   [Range: 60 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: PERS number of objects of small to medium size]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: PERS minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power allows a character to lift and manipulate objects. The
    object(s) may then be moved by the character. Some examples include
    pulling triggers, flipping switche]{.c0}[s, or lifting rocks.
    ]{.c6}[The movement of objects in this fashion is in addition to any
    other action the character may normally attempt. An object
    manipulated by Kinetic may also be violently hurled at a target by
    rolling another Kinetic check; no additional PV needs to be spent
    for such an attack. The object(s) hurled at the target deal
    1d6+PERS (LI) body damage or 2d6+PERS (LI) stun damage (assuming
    they are capable of causing damage; hurling soft pillows at a target
    will not inflict damage). If Kinetic is used in such a way, the
    psionic character loses control of the hurled object and must make
    another Kinetic check (and pay the cost in PV) to manipulate another
    object. A character who uses ]{.c0}[Kinetic must have the use of at
    least one of their hands and arms in order to manipulate objects,
    otherwise DA is imposed on the check.]{.c6}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c6 .c7 .c13}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Flight: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character can use Kinetic to propel
    themselves through the air as though flying. The character may move
    up to PERS meters/phase for the duration of the power. Any special
    acrobatic maneuvers may require another Kinetic check, but no
    additional use of PV.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Earthmover: ]{.c6 .c7}[Rather than using Kinetic to manipulate PERS
    number of small to medium objects, the psionic character may use the
    power to move one massive object, like a city bus, small starship,
    or other object of similar size. Every combat phase, the character
    is able to slowly move the object 3 meters in any direction. It is
    not possible to hurl this object to cause damage, though an object
    dropped from a great height could cause significant harm. All other
    rules of Kinetic apply.]{.c2 .c0}



[Metabolism                        ]{.c1}

-   [Range: Personal]{.c0 .c2}
-   [Target: Self]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Duration: 3+PERS minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power enables a character to alter their body's metabolism to
    survive in adverse environments better than ordinarily possible.
    When this power is activated, characters have AD on Endurance checks
    to resist environmental effects such as heat, cold, etc.
    Additionally, a character may hold their breath for the duration of
    the power. Finally, any poisons or toxins ingested ]{.c0}[by the
    character are suspended, and the character suffers no further ill
    effects from them, until the power is ended.]{.c6}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Enhance: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can now use Metabolism to
    increase their FORT and/or AGI attribute by up to 2 points for the
    duration, spread among the two. The psionic character chooses how to
    allocate their two additional points at the time of usage. The
    increase only applies to skills and defenses; increasing FORT by 2
    (for example) will increase the character's Melee skill and physical
    defense, but will not increase their stun or body health. The
    attribute increase cannot for any reason cause the character to have
    an attribute score of more than 6. ]{.c6}
-   [Regeneration: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character is able to use
    Metabolism to restore some lost durability. As an action, the
    character can heal 1d3+PERS body damage, or 1d6+PERS stun damage.
    The character must choose which durability type to restore before
    making the check.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Stasis: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character can voluntarily put themselves
    into a sort of suspended animation in which their bodily functions
    nearly cease. To outside observers without specialized medical
    equipment to detect brain activity, the psionic character appears to
    be dead. Meanwhile, the character retains full control over their
    mental faculties, and can hear as normal (but cannot see). While in
    this state, the psionic character does not need to eat, drink, or
    breathe. The duration for this effect is 1+PERS hours (extend).]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Buff: ]{.c6 .c7}[The character is able to use Metabolism to
    increase their maximum BODY and STUN durabilities temporarily. A
    character can increase their 1d6+PERS body durability, or 2d6+PERS
    stun durability for the duration of the power. (Note that it is
    possible for a character to do both, by making two actions and
    spending two PV.) The player must choose which durability to
    increase at the time of usage. When used, the character not only
    increases their maximum durability, but also restores half (rounded
    up) of the added durability they added. For example, a character
    with a PERS of 3 chooses to increase their BODY durability. They
    roll 2 on 1d6, meaning that they increase their max BODY durability
    by 5 for the duration. Additionally, they would also immediately
    heal 3 BODY durability (half of 5, rounded up). Upon the conclusion
    of this power, the character's respective durability maximums drop
    back to normal, but they do not lose the gained durability.]{.c2
    .c0}



Persuasion

-   [Range: 30 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: 1 individual]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: Instant, suggestion up to INT hours]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [By use of this power, the psionic character implants a memory,
    thought, idea, or suggestion that the target attempts to follow to
    the best of their ability. Extreme suggestions (i.e. "jump off the
    ]{.c0}[roof of a skyscraper"]{.c6}[) may impose DA on the check or
    may automatically fail (GM and group discretion). After the
    duration, the target "forgets" the implanted thought and resumes
    their normal behavior, though they may be con]{.c0}[fused as to
    their current situation]{.c6}[. A psionic character may attempt to
    use Persuasion on multiple targets up to their INT score using the
    same action. In such a case, the psionic character would roll their
    Persuasion check separately for each intended target. One psychovolt
    must be spent for each target as well. This power cannot
    ]{.c0}[target AI constructs or other devices. Touching the target
    grants AD on the check.]{.c6}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Possession: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character is able to temporarily
    migrate their consciousness into another sentient individual (not
    animal or AI construct), taking control. An unwilling host imposes
    DA to the check, but skin-to-skin contact grants AD. If successful,
    the psionic character now sees, hears, and otherwise acts as the
    target of the power. If the target was unwilling, they may attempt
    to "expel" the possessing character after 1d3 hours. The possessing
    character must make another successful check every 1d3 hours to
    maintain control. The character retains all of their skills while
    possessing another. Any INT or PERS skill checks are rolled as
    normal, but any FORT or AGI skill checks are made with the target's
    attributes. If the possessing character takes actions that would
    endanger the well-being of their target (or someone or something
    dear to the target), the possessing psionic character must first
    roll a Mental Defense check. Failure means that the possession ends
    and the target regains control of their consciousness. While in
    possession of another, the psionic character's body falls into a
    catatonic state. Any attacks made against the character in this
    state automatically succeed. If a possessing character's body
    durability is reduced to zero while this power is in effect, the
    possession immediately ends and the character dies. As far as the
    target is concerned, they remain "unconscious" while possessed. This
    can mean some very rude awakenings when the power ends! If the
    target's physical body is knocked unconscious or killed while being
    possessed, the possession ends immediately. Regardless of how the
    possession ends, the psionic character always received 1d6 (ME) stun
    damage upon returning to their own physical body.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Obliviate: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character may use Persuasion to
    "erase" up to 1d6+INT minutes of memories from the target's mind.
    The psionic character chooses which minutes and memories to "erase."
    ]{.c6}



[Shield                                ]{.c1}

-   [Range: A 12 square meter wall, emanating out of one of the
    caster]{.c0}['s hands]{.c6}
-   [Target: N/A]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: PERS minutes, or until exhausted (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power creates a glowing psionic wall of protection that
    protects any objects behind it (]{.c0}[including the psionic
    character) ]{.c6}[from ranged attacks. The wall has a
    clearly-defined "front" and "back," which the psionic character
    specifies upon its creation by use of one arm and
    han]{.c0}[d]{.c6}[. Upon the creation of the shield wall, the
    psionic character establishes how much damage the shield can absorb
    by rolling 1d6+PERS for body damage, and 2d6+PERS for stun damage.
    If any target behind the wall is attacked ]{.c0}[from range]{.c6
    .c7}[ the shield soaks any LI, HI, or EN damage up to those amounts.
    Any damage beyond what the shield absorbs is received by the
    target(s) as normal. Once the shield wall is created it can be moved
    or reshaped within its dimensions (during the power's duration) by
    making another Shield check, but no additional PV use is required.
    If the psionic character wants to re-streng]{.c0}[then the wall
    within the duration, they may do so by spending one additional PV
    and re-rolling how much damage the shield can absorb. The new
    durability of the shield supersedes and replaces the old durability.
    ]{.c6}[The shield dissipates at the end of the power's duration, or
    when an attack reduces one of its durability tracks (body or stun)
    to 0. ]{.c0}[Moving through the shield in any direction halves all
    movement rates.]{.c6}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Forcefield: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character's shield inflicts
    1d6+PERS stun EN damage to individuals who come into contact with
    the shield. If a target remains in contact with the shield after
    taking the damage, they do not receive the damage a second time. The
    psionic character can choose whether or not to inflict this damage
    (in the case of allies). ]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Durable Barrier: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character's shield can now
    absorb up to 2d6+PERS body damage and 3d6+PERS stun damage. ]{.c2
    .c0}
-   



Telepathy

-   [Range: 120 meters]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Target: 1 individual or Self]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Duration: 3+INT minutes (extend)]{.c2 .c0}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [This power enables telepathic communication between the character
    and another individual within range. The character and the target do
    not need to share a common language, but both need to speak at least
    one language (i.e. this power will not work on animals). Telepathy
    also will not work on artificial intelligence (AI) constructs. The
    character must be able to see the intended target, otherwise DA is
    imposed on the roll. ]{.c0}[I]{.c6}[f the check is successful, an
    unwilling target will attempt to mentally expel the user after 1d3
    minutes. In such a circumstance, a psionic character must make
    another Telepathy check to maintain the power for each additional
    minute of the power's duration. Once linked, the two may wordlessly
    communicate with one another for the duration. The psionic character
    may attempt to use Telepathy with a number of individuals equal to
    or less than their INT score. In such a case, the character would
    roll separate Telepathy checks for each intended target, and one
    additional PV point must be spent for each target. If the psionic
    character comes into physical contact (skin-to-skin) with their
    target the check is rolled with AD.]{.c2 .c0}
-   [Expertise Perks:]{.c1}

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   [Distance: ]{.c6 .c7}[Once per milestone, the psionic character can
    use Telepathy to communicate with a target in the same star system.
    All other rules concerning the usage of Telepathy still apply.]{.c2
    .c0}
-   [Enhance: ]{.c6 .c7}[The psionic character can use Telepathy to
    increase their INT and/or PERS attribute by 2 points for the
    duration. The psionic character chooses how to allocate their two
    additional points at the time of usage. The increase only applies to
    skill checks and defense rolls; increasing PERS by 2 (for example)
    will increase the character's Deception skill and mental defense,
    but will not increase their stun or PV. The attribute increase
    cannot for any reason cause the character to have an attribute score
    of more than 6. ]{.c2 .c0}

\newpage