Skill Descriptions
-------------------

### Acrobatics [ *AGI* ]
This is the "default" AGI check, and in cases where the GM decides on such a
check, Acrobatics will be rolled.

Acrobatics is utilized whenever a character attempts to engage in a physical
activity that requires a great deal of coordination, balance, dexterity, and/or
gymnastic talent. Examples would include walking a tightrope between two
buildings, hovering in zero-gravity, tumbling out of the way in a firefight, or
trying not to slip on an icy surface. A successful roll means that the character
accomplishes their acrobatic feat (for the time being).

#### Expertise Perks

##### Missed Me
Once per milestone, a character with this perk may ignore all damage received
from a single attack that targeted physical defense. This can be invoked after
making the defense check and calculating damage.

### Animals [ *PERS* ]
The Animals skill is used when a character is interacting with animals of any
type, wild or domestic. Note that this is a skill that is based on PERS, not on
INT. The Animals skill is used in cases where a character is trying to ride,
handle, befriend (or not be eaten by) an animal, or when a character is
attempting to train an intelligent, domesticated animal to perform certain
tasks. Factual information on the animals (i.e. their diets, habitats, etc.) are
academic knowledge, and therefore would be best rolled by using the Outdoors
skill using INT as the attribute (see Outdoors for more information).

#### Expertise Perks

##### Animal Companion

### Athletics [ *FORT* ]
This is the "default" FORT check, and in cases where the GM decides on such a
check, Athletics will be rolled.

An Athletics check is rolled when the character attempts to use strength or
speed to accomplish a task. Examples would include climbing a ledge, sprinting
down an alley, or lifting a heavy object. A successful check means that the
character has succeeded in their athletic feat (for the time being). 

#### Expertise Perks

### Bureaucracy [ *INT* ]
Bureaucracy is a knowledge skill that reflects a character's knowledge of
various bureaucratic systems such as governments, legal systems, corporations,
organized religions, or other similar hierarchies. Successful use of Bureaucracy
means that a character has gained, or is able to recall, key details about the
bureaucratic systems in place in a certain situation. These key details may even
translate as bonuses on other related skill checks in the form of providing
advantage.

#### Gear

##### Fashion Suit
The fashion suit is an assemblage of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. that
emit an aura of confidence and belonging. The suit can also superficially change
colors, emit pleasing (or unpleasing odors), and can enable a character to "fit
in" in certain locales. The Fashion Suit grants advantage on Bureaucracy, Charm,
Deception, and Streetwise checks in situations where personal dress and physical
appearance may play a role. The player must declare their intent to modify their
Fashion Suit before such an event. This is the same Fashion Suit as can be
acquired with the Charm, Deception, and Streetwise skills.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Resourceful Contacts
This character has developed a contact that is exceptionally beneficial. Rather
than gaining information, assistance, or resources from this contact once per
milestone as is usual, this character is able to utilize their contact twice per
milestone. This Perk may be taken multiple times, once for each contact a
character has.

### Charm [ *PERS* ]
A Charm check is made when a character attempts to gain information or
assistance from an NPC. A successful roll means that the NPC is willing to
assist and aid the character (within reason) until the situation changes, at
which point the character may need to re-roll the Charm check (depending on
circumstances). A character may attempt to use Charm against multiple targets
(up to their PERS score) using the same action, but each check needs to be
rolled separately.

#### Gear

##### Fashion Suit
The fashion suit is an assemblage of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. that
emit an aura of confidence and belonging. The suit can also superficially change
colors, emit pleasing (or unpleasing odors), and can enable a character to "fit
in" in certain locales. The Fashion Suit grants advantage on Bureaucracy, Charm,
Deception, and Streetwise checks in situations where personal dress and physical
appearance may play a role. The player must declare their intent to modify their
Fashion Suit before such an event.  This is the same Fashion Suit as can be
acquired with the Bureaucracy, Deception, and Streetwise skills.

#### Expertise Perks

### Computers [ *INT* ]
The Computers skill represents a character's ability to use computerized systems
to their fullest effect. It is assumed that all characters have a basic
understanding of computer technology, as it is ubiquitous in the world; however,
characters who use Computers are able to make even ordinary devices perform
above what the untrained can do. For instance, while every character would be
able to use basic functions on a computer (search, save, delete, communicate,
etc.), by using Computers a character is able to hack into a computer system, or
to re-write computer code to their liking.

#### Gear

##### Personal Computer
A character trained in Computers has a small personal computer that has
capabilities not found in other normal devices. Most notably, a personal
computer can be used to hack into other computer or electronic systems
wirelessly to a range of 30m. A character's device can vary to suit the player,
but they are generally small, thin, hand-held machines. A wireless hack imposes
DA to the Computers check, but if the character physically connects their
device to a computer or electronic lock being hacked via wires, the roll is done
as normal. 

#### Expertise Perks

### Deception [ *PERS* ]
When a character chooses to knowingly lie or deceive, a Deception check is made.
A successful roll means that the target believes the character's lie until there
is a change in the situation, at which point the character may need to re-roll
the Deception check (depending on circumstances). A character may attempt to use
Deception against multiple targets (up to their PERS score) using the same
action, but each check needs to be rolled separately. It is important to note
that if and when an NPC discovers that they have been lied to, their attitude
towards the character will probably lessen, making further interactions more
difficult.

#### Gear

##### Fashion Suit
The fashion suit is an assemblage of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. that
emit an aura of confidence and belonging. The suit can also superficially change
colors, emit pleasing (or unpleasing odors), and can enable a character to "fit
in" in certain locales. The Fashion Suit grants advantage on Bureaucracy, Charm,
Deception, and Streetwise checks in situations where personal dress and physical
appearance may play a role. The player must declare their intent to modify their
Fashion Suit before such an event. This is the same Fashion Suit as can be
acquired with the Bureaucracy, Charm, and Streetwise skills.

#### Expertise Perks

### Deduce [ *INT* ]
This is the "default" INT check, and in cases where the GM decides on such a
check, Deduce will be rolled. 

Deduce is a measure of a character's innate ability to see patterns in
information, and to fit those patterns together into a pleasing whole. Solving
puzzles and "connecting the dots," so to speak, are when Deduce checks would be
necessary.

#### Expertise Perks


#### Linguist
This character can learn 2 additional languages. This perk may be taken twice.

### Endurance [ *FORT* ]
The Endurance skill represents a character's physical stamina and toughness.
Endurance checks are made in cases where a character is trying to resist adverse
environments, such as extreme cold or heat, or when a character is fighting off
disease or infection. Endurance checks can also be made to determine whether or
not a character is able to continue with physically strenuous work, such as
running a marathon. A success on an Endurance check generally means that the
character is unaffected by the challenge and may continue to take actions as
normal until the GM decides otherwise. A failure generally means that the
character succumbs to the physical challenge, and suffers the consequences as
dictated by the situation. Finally, a character may make an Endurance check
during a rest to restore 1 point of body durability.

#### Gear

##### Armor
A character trained in Endurance has body armor that protects against physical
damage. Armor soaks 1d6 LI/1d3 HI/1d6 EN damage. It has no soaking ability
versus ME damage. The body armor is akin to a bulletproof vest in its general
mass and bulkiness. It can be concealed at range by clothing, but any observers
within 6 meters of the character can identify the armor within 1 minute. A
character wearing armor has DA to Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, and Thievery
checks. Tesa characters have a natural "Armor" due to their scales which does
not impose penalties on the aforementioned skill checks.

##### E-Suit
The E-Suit (short for "environment suit") better enables the character to
withstand environmental extremes (heat, cold, low oxygen, etc.). The E-Suit is
sort of a combination between a hazmat suit, a scuba suit, and a lightweight
spacesuit. E-Suits are not normal fashion, so it's obvious that a character is
wearing one (though the appearance could be improved by spending further XP).
The first time the GM calls for an Endurance check to resist the environment, a
character with an E-Suit rolls their check with advantage. Any level of success
allows the character to continue rolling with advantage thereafter. Any failure
results mean that the suit is incapable of handling the extremes and ceases to
function until the character takes a rest, or until the GM awards a milestone.
The E-Suit is also equipped with a respirator that can be used in space or
underwater, or to mitigate the effects of smoke or toxins, for 10 minutes per
milestone. This is the same E-Suit granted by training in the Outdoors skill.

#### Expertise Perks

### Humanities [ *INT* ]
Humanities is a knowledge skill that reflects a character's familiarity with the
past, historical events, patterns of human behavior, art, literature, music, and
other liberal studies in general. A successful Humanities check means the
character has successfully recalled or applied knowledge about the past, human
societies, artwork, mythology, literature, theatre, or other questions of
psychology and economics. This success could even be translated into advantage
on future related checks.

#### Expertise Perks

### Medicine [ *INT* ]
Medicine is a skill that reflects a character's knowledge of human (and
potentially animal) physiology. The character may be adept at diagnosing medical
problems, and may potentially have first aid training, or be able to treat
disease or illness. A successful use of Medicine is generally used outside of
combat, and means that the character has succeeded (at least temporarily) in
their efforts to diagnose or treat themselves or others. During a rest, a
character can use Medicine once to restore either 1d3 body durability in
themselves or another individual. 

#### Gear

##### Medical Kit
A character trained in Medicine has a small medical kit ("medkit" for short)
that can be used to restore damage in themselves or in others in and out of
combat scenarios. The medkit is roughly the size and shape of a book, and
contains an assortment of pharmaceuticals, bandages, surgical tools, etc. There
are enough supplies in each medkit to be used up to three times per milestone,
and upon reaching a milestone, the medkit is "recharged." The medkit can be used
in a combat scene with a Medicine check to restore up to 2d6 stun damage to an
individual. Doing so in combat requires 2 actions (for a minimum of 2 combat
phases\--they don't have to be consecutive). During a rest, the medkit can be
used to restore up to 1d6 body damage. Note that this is in addition to any
durability gained by characters through the Endurance skill. If a character
tries to use a medkit on themselves, they suffer DA to the Medicine check.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Xenomedicine
This character has truly learned to think outside the box when it comes to
living things. If this character ever encounters a lifeform unknown to them (or
to the Ekumen as a whole) they may make a Medicine check to determine certain
facts; for example, the way the organism reproduces, its diet, life cycle,
communication, hunting habits, etc. This knowledge results in AD on associated
checks when dealing with members of that species.

##### Surgery
The character may use Medicine during a rest to heal double the amount of body
durability they would otherwise heal. Double the restored body durability after
rolling dice.

##### Resourceful
The character may make up to two Medicine checks per rest to restore body
durability
. 
##### Diagnostic Expert
This character can more accurately and effectively diagnose diseases and toxins;
therefore, treating the condition is also more effective. Depending on the
particular disease or poison, this character either restores an additional 2
body durability on top of their normal roll when they use Medicine during a
rest, or they reduce the time required to recover from an illness/poison by 50%.
The GM will have more information on particular diseases and toxins.

### Melee [ *FORT* ]
Melee represents a character's ability to use their body (hands, fists, etc.) in
order to inflict damage, or to otherwise restrain or incapacitate others. When
trying to harm another, a successful use inflicts 1d3+FORT (LI) body damage, or
1d6+FORT (LI) stun damage. The player chooses which durability type to target
before making the Melee check. When trying to disarm, restrain, or otherwise use
their body without the direct intent to inflict harm, success means that the
character succeeds in the attempted action (at least for a time). Further checks
to maintain a restraint or a hold may be required.

#### Gear

##### Melee Weapon
A character trained in Melee has a melee weapon that can be used as an action in
combat. The melee weapon deals 1d6+FORT (LI) body damage, or 2d6+FORT (LI) stun
damage. The character chooses which damage type to deal when using the weapon
and before making the Melee check. The exact weapon the character uses can vary
from player to player, but melee weapons are able to be used one-handed. They
are capable of striking an enemy that the character is adjacent to (within 1
meter). The melee weapon is obvious to onlookers and cannot be successfully
hidden. Melee weapons do not produce noise at great distances. 

#### Expertise Perks

##### Extra Attack
This character can make an extra Melee attack in the same action. The target of
the extra attack must be within melee range (it could be the same as the first
attack, or it could be different). The Melee check and damage rolls are done
separately.

#### Parry
A character with this perk may attempt to use Melee to parry a melee attack made
against them once per combat round. Before rolling physical defense, the player
would first roll a Melee check. If successful, they would then roll their PD
check with advantage. If the Melee check to parry is unsuccessful, they roll
their PD check as normal. 

#### Deflect
This perk allows a character armed with a melee weapon the chance to deflect a
ranged attack once per combat round. Before rolling PD as the target of a ranged
attack, the character would first roll a Melee check. If successful, they would
then roll their PD check with advantage. If the Melee check to deflect is
unsuccessful, they roll their PD check as normal. Note that this perk requires
the use of a melee weapon; deflecting unarmed will not work.

### Occult [ *PERS* ]
The Occult skill is a knowledge skill that reflects the character's familiarity
with psionic forces and psionic powers. Some characters trained in Occult
themselves have psionic ability; others are academics who seek to understand
psionic energy. A successful use of this skill means that the character has been
able to remember or understand a vital bit of psionic information. This
successful roll may even provide AD in future related checks. Occult can also be
used outside of combat to create a psionic implement (see Psionics).

#### Gear

##### Psionic Shield
The psionic shield is a small device that looks similar to a normal personal
computer or communication device. It may be used in one of two ways; first, if
worn or carried by a character, it either imposes DA on any psionic power used
within 30 meters or grants the carrying character AD on defense checks to resist
psionic attacks. The carrying character may voluntarily choose to "switch off"
the shield and ignore these penalties and advantages. Alternatively, the psionic
shield may be "clamped" onto an individual (restraints and modifications may be
made to fit around an individual's neck). In such a case the individual to whom
it is attached may not use psionic powers while the device is active. A
character may choose to combine their Psionic Shield into one device along with
their personal communicator or other devices.

##### Psionic Detector
The psionic detector is a small device that looks similar to a normal personal
computer or communication device. If any psionic power is used (or is in use)
within 30 meters, the detector will alert and will pinpoint the general
direction of the usage. Note that this includes any active psionic powers from
the character themselves, or any allies. If the character is actively monitoring
the detector, any usage of a psionic power will pinpoint the individual who used
the power. The carrying character may voluntarily choose to "switch off" the
detector and remain ignorant to psionic activity in their immediacy. A character
may choose to combine their Psionic Detector into one device along with their
personal communicator or other devices (provided that they have paid 1 XP each
to get each Gear item). This is the same Psionic Detector granted by training in
the Science skill.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Ritual
This character may perform a psionic "ritual" which has the ability to magnify
the effect of a psionic power. Performing a ritual needs time and preparation;
therefore, rituals can only be performed during rests. In order to perform a
successful ritual, the lead character must first succeed at their Occult skill
check. Finally, the psionic power to be magnified needs to be used. It is
possible for more than one character to be involved in a ritual (one to use
Occult and one to use the psionic power, for instance). The psychovolt spent to
use the psionic power is not recovered during the rest. The players and the GM
should collaboratively decide the effect of a successful ritual.

### Outdoors [ *INT* ]
Outdoors represents a character's knowledge and skill at survival in non-urban
settings. Characters who succeed in an Outdoors check are generally able to know
enough about their outside environments to find enough food, shelter, and water
for 3 individuals for 24 hours. Feel free to adjust the rate depending on the
environment, the number of people, or other factors. They may use this skill to
navigate out of doors, or to provide AD on other related checks in a wilderness
setting.

#### Gear

##### Survival Kit
The survival kit is a small briefcase-sized kit which contains emergency
supplies that are useful in the wilderness. It contains a variety of dried
foodstuffs, water purification tablets, emergency blankets, lamps, heaters, and
navigational tools. A character who makes an Outdoors check while in possession
of a survival kit (depending on situation) will receive AD on the check.

##### E-Suit
The E-Suit (short for "environment suit") better enables the character to
withstand environmental extremes. The first time the GM calls for an Endurance
check to resist the environment, a character with an E-Suit rolls their check
with advantage. Any level of success allows the character to continue rolling
with advantage thereafter. Any failure results mean that the suit is incapable
of handling the extremes and ceases to function until the character takes a
rest. The E-Suit is also equipped with a respirator that can be used underwater,
or to mitigate the effects of smoke or toxins, for 10 minutes per rest. This is
the same E-Suit granted by training in the Endurance Skill.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Resourceful
The character can find enough food, shelter, and water for 6 individuals for 24
hours. 

### Ranged [ *AGI* ]
Ranged represents a character's knowledge and ability to gauge distances, and to
throw or shoot projectiles accurately. A character can use Ranged to throw a
small-to-medium-sized object (such as a stone) up to FORTx6 meters (see
"Standard Physical Abilities" below). This object could then feasibly cause
damage equal to 1d3 (LI) body damage or 1d6 (LI) stun damage, provided that it
is a hard or otherwise damaging object (throwing a soft pillow would not cause
this damage). Allowances should be made for objects designed to be thrown (like
a football) versus those that are not (like a personal computer).

#### Gear

##### Ranged Weapon
A character trained in Ranged has a ranged weapon that can be used as an action
in combat. The ranged weapon deals 2d6 (HI) body damage on a successful check
result. Ranged weapons may target anything within 120m of the character
(provided there are no obstructions), and require two hands to use. The ranged
weapon is obvious to onlookers and cannot be hidden. Ranged weapons create noise
when used, and listeners within 360m of the character are able to hear it
clearly.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Extra Attack
This character can make an extra Ranged attack in the same action. The target of
the extra attack must be within range (it could be the same as the first attack,
or it could be different). The Ranged check and damage rolls are done
separately. This perk may be chosen more than once; in such a case, the
character may make 3 attacks in the same combat phase.

#### Sniper
This character can successfully use a Ranged weapon within 180 meters.

### Resolve [ *PERS* ]
This is the "default" PERS check, and in cases where the GM decides on such a
check, Resolve will be rolled.

The Resolve skill is used in cases where a character's mental or spiritual
capacity is stretched to the limit. For example, the GM may call for a Resolve
check in order to withstand intense terror, grotesqueness, or shock. A success
on such a check means that the character can act as normal in those situations.
Resolve is also important for psionic characters. Once per rest, a psionic
character may make a Resolve check to restore 3 spent psychovolts. Resolve
cannot be used to restore psychovolts beyond their maximum, however.

#### Expertise Perks

### Science [ *INT* ]
Science is a knowledge skill which is used when characters want to utilize
biological, chemical, physical, or other scientific information. Success on a
Science skill grants the player the desired scientific knowledge, and can also
provide AD on further related skill checks.

#### Gear

##### Forensics Kit
The forensics kit includes inks, dyes, powders, and other tools useful to
investigators of all types, including police, detectives, and other operatives.
The forensics kit is roughly the size and shape of a book, and grants a
character AD on Search checks when used to find minute details in a scene, and
can also provide much more detailed information than would otherwise be possible
(for example, that the crime was committed by a male with black hair, rather
than simply a crime was committed by a person standing 1.8 meters tall). Using
the forensics kit requires 30 minutes, and so cannot be used in a combat scene.
This is the same Forensics Kit as provided by the Search skill.

##### Psionic Detector
The psionic detector is a small device that looks similar to a normal personal
computer or communication device. If any psionic power is used (or is in use)
within 30 meters, the detector will alert and will pinpoint the general
direction of the usage. Note that this includes any active psionic powers from
the character themselves, or any allies. If the character is actively monitoring
the detector, any usage of a psionic power will pinpoint the individual who used
the power. The carrying character may voluntarily choose to "switch off" the
detector and remain ignorant to psionic activity in their immediacy. A character
may choose to combine their Psionic Detector into one device along with their
personal communicator or other devices (provided that they have paid 1 XP each
to get each Gear item). This is the same Psionic Detector granted by training in
the Occult skill.

##### Science Kit
A character trained in Science has a small science kit that enables them to
conduct scientific lab work and fieldwork when an actual lab is not present. The
science kit is roughly the size and shape of a briefcase, and contains vials,
test tubes, chemical bases and solvents, etc. Using a science kit grants a
character AD on Science checks when a physical sample is available to study
(mineral, tissue, etc.). The use of a science kit in this way takes 30 minutes,
and so is not available during a combat encounter.

##### Sensor Array
The sensor array is an electronic device that detects a large quantity of
environmental data, such as temperature, humidity, UV radiation, electromagnetic
radiation, infrared, etc. The sensor array itself is a device similar to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. Using the
sensor array outside of a combat scene (which requires 3 minutes) grants the
character a wealth of knowledge about their immediate environment, up to 120
meters away. It can also provide AD on the Search skill when used to detect
larger-scale environmental features in a scene. This is the same sensor array as
provided by the Search and Technology skills.
#### Expertise Perks

### Search [ *INT* ]
The Search skill represents training that the character has in gleaning clues
from their environment. The GM may call for Search checks at times to notice
clues in the characters' specific locale. At other times, a character may
specifically want to use Search to find a specific item or person. In such
cases, a successful skill check results in the character finding what they
wanted to find (more or less). 

#### Gear

##### Forensics Kit
The forensics kit includes inks, dyes, powders, and other tools useful to
investigators of all types, including police, detectives, and other operatives.
The forensics kit is roughly the size and shape of a book, and grants a
character AD on Search checks when used to find minute details in a scene, and
can also provide much more detailed information than would otherwise be possible
(for example, that the crime was committed by a male with black hair, rather
than simply a crime was committed by a person standing 1.8 meters tall). Using
the forensics kit requires 30 minutes, and so cannot be used in a combat scene.
This is the same Forensics kit as provided by the Science skill.

##### Sensor Array
The sensor array is an electronic device that detects a large quantity of
environmental data, such as temperature, humidity, UV radiation, electromagnetic
radiation, infrared, etc. The sensor array itself is a device similar to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. Using the
sensor array outside of a combat scene (which requires 3 minutes) grants the
character a wealth of knowledge about their immediate environment, up to 120
meters away. It can also provide AD on the Search skill when used to detect
larger-scale environmental features in a scene. This is the same sensor array as
provided by the Science and Technology skills.
#### Expertise Perks

### Stealth [ *AGI* ]
The Stealth skill is used when a character is attempting to hide, shadow, or
otherwise remain unnoticed by an NPC. A successful skill check means that the
character has successfully remained undetected until something in the situation
changes. A character who is attempting to remain hidden from multiple NPCs must
make a separate check for each NPC. A character who is successfully hidden may
break cover to initiate a surprise round in combat. In such a case, the surprise
round would come before the Amazing phase in combat, and the stealthy character
would only gain one bonus action in that round. Additionally, a character in a
surprise round of combat would roll their attack with advantage. 

#### Gear
##### Stealth Unit
The stealth unit is a small electronic device in similar size and shape to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. The stealth
device includes sound-dampening technology and projects image-blurring which
grants a character with this device AD on Stealth checks. If a character using a
stealth unit remains motionless, they cannot be detected. Any motion would
trigger another Stealth check, but with AD. The character can choose to turn
this device on and off.

#### Expertise Perks

### Streetwise [ *PERS* ]
The Streetwise skill is a knowledge skill which represents a character's ability
to get around and survive in urban environments. A skill check may be called for
when navigating from one point to another in a city, or when trying to find
safehouses, etc. Success on a Streetwise skill check may provide AD on further
related skill checks.

#### Gear

##### Fashion Suit
The fashion suit is an assemblage of clothing, shoes, accessories, etc. that
emit an aura of confidence and belonging. The suit can also superficially change
colors, emit pleasing (or unpleasing odors), and can enable a character to "fit
in" in certain locales. The Fashion Suit grants advantage on Bureaucracy, Charm,
Deception, and Streetwise checks in situations where personal dress and physical
appearance may play a role. The player must declare their intent to modify their
Fashion Suit before such an event.  This is the same Fashion Suit as can be
acquired with the Bureaucracy, Charm, and Deception skills.

#### Expertise Perks

### Tactics [ *INT* ]
The Tactics skill is used when characters attempt to gain the upper hand prior
to a combat situation, or when a character is attempting to infiltrate,
sabotage, or otherwise gain access to an off-limits area. In general, Tactics
represents a character's knowledge and use of superior weaponry, positioning,
vehicles, strategy, and ambush in order to achieve military goals. A successful
use of Tactics can grant a surprise round in combat for the character, and up to
INT number of others. Tactics can also be used to plot the best entry into a
fortified facility, or to find weaknesses in a structure or other large vehicle.
In such a case, the successful use of Tactics may provide AD on future related
skill checks. 

#### Gear

##### Explosives kit
The explosives kit comes in two separate forms: as a satchel charge or as three
small grenades. The character who acquires an explosives kit must specify which
kit they choose. Each kit may be "recharged," so to speak, once per milestone.
The satchel charge may be used as part of a Tactics check to destroy a large
vehicle or small building. Each grenade may be used as a thrown weapon (see the
Ranged skill) which deals 2d6 (HI) body damage for a fragmentation grenade or
3d6 (LI) stun damage for a concussion grenade. The player must choose which
damage to deal before making the Ranged check. The satchel charge is the general
size and mass of a briefcase and can be easily disguised as such from the
outside. The three grenades are the size and mass of baseballs and can be easily
concealed by clothing.

#### Expertise Perks

##### Command
This character can give bonus actions to their allies. After every initiative
check, the player can choose to give one extra action to any of their allies
that are within 30 meters. The character receiving the extra action must use it
during that combat round, or it is lost. A commanding player can give up to
three extra actions in between each rest.

### Technology [ *INT* ]
The Technology skill is a measure of a character's knowledge about robotics,
electronics, and other technological devices and advances. In certain cases, the
GM will call for a Technology check to be able to recall or know technological
information. Technology is also an important skill for being able to repair
technological devices. A successful skill check to repair (which requires a
rest) results in the desired piece of equipment becoming functional again.
Alternatively, a character may use Technology to "jury-rig" a broken device.
Jury-rigging requires two combat actions, and results in the desired device
becoming functional for another 1d6 hours, after which the device breaks again
and cannot be used until repaired as normal during a rest. Using Repair to fix
damaged CyberWare imposes DA on the skill check. Additionally, Technology is
also important for cybered characters. Once per rest, a cybered character may
make a Technology check to restore 3 spent batteries. Technology cannot be used
to restore batteries beyond their maximum, however.

#### Gear

##### Repair Kit
The repair kit includes tools and electronics which are useful in fixing damaged
technological or electronic devices. The kit itself is about the size and shape
of a book. Using the repair kit when fixing items no longer requires a
rest\--instead, the repairs take 1d3 hours. This can come in handy when needing
to make repairs quickly without expending a rest. When using the Repair Kit to
jury-rig, it provides AD on the related Technology check. 

##### Sensor Array
The sensor array is an electronic device that detects a large quantity of
environmental data, such as temperature, humidity, UV radiation, electromagnetic
radiation, infrared, etc. The sensor array itself is a device similar to a
regular computer or communication device carried by most people. Using the
sensor array outside of a combat scene (which requires 3 minutes) grants the
character a wealth of knowledge about their immediate environment, up to 120
meters away. It can also provide AD on the Search skill when used to detect
larger-scale environmental features in a scene. This is the same sensor array as
provided by the Science and Technology skills.

#### Expertise Perks

### Thievery [ *AGI* ]
Thievery measures a character's skill and adeptness in pickpocketing,
lockpicking, and other feats of sleight-of-hand. A successful skill check means
that the character has managed to lift a small object off of another individual
without their awareness. It also means that a character has managed to pick or
break a lock in order to gain entry into a restricted location. Using Thievery
on an electronic lock imposes DA to the skill check. Thievery can also be used
to quickly hide an item, or to prestidigitate in such a way that observers lose
track of an object.

#### Gear

##### Lockpick Set
The lockpick set consists of physical and electronic devices which facilitate
lockpicking and illicit entry. The lockpick set itself is roughly the size and
shape of a small book. Use of the lockpick set grants AD to lockpicking physical
locks, and negates the DA imposed on electronic locks.

#### Expertise Perks

### Vehicles [ *AGI* ]
Vehicles represents a character's aptitude in operating small-to-medium-sized
vehicles. (Larger vehicles, such as trains, dreadnoughts, or battleships are
generally operated through the use of Computers.) While all characters are
probably familiar with the standard operation of civilian vehicles, a trained
character is capable of speeds and maneuvers which enable them to tail those
that they chase or to lose those that pursue them. Training in vehicles also
allows characters to operate specialty craft that most civilians have no
familiarity with, such as jet-skis or personal aircraft. When a character
operating a vehicle attempts a vehicular maneuver out of the ordinary, the GM
will call for a check. On a successful roll, the maneuver succeeds. 

#### Gear

##### Personal Vehicle
The character is in possession of a small, one-person capacity personal vehicle.
This vehicle is generally designed for land usage, but can be modified to travel
in the air, the water, or in space. The personal vehicle provides very little in
the way of physical protection (think of a motorcycle), but can enable the
character to travel independently at need.

#### Expertise Perks

\newpage